Part I

MATT: So, where we left off, our intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, having returned the traitor Riskel Daxio to Sovereign Uriel in the center of the town of Emon, Grog beheading him as part of his punishment for being such a traitorous worshiper of the evil entity known as Vecna. Upon going out for a pub crawl, came across Gilmore in a secret speakeasy, managed to enjoy a Heroes' Feast at his expense, whereas Vex and Vax both, all of you, got pretty– Keyleth got very– drunk.

LAURA: I didn't get drunk at all.

MATT: That's right, you didn't drink.

MARISHA: I got pretty wasted.

MATT: Gilmore had a very intense conversation with Vax over there to ensure where they stood, and Keyleth vomited multiple times. But after which the party found their way back to the Keep, where Dr. Dranzel and his Spectacular Traveling Troupe were drinking and expecting you to be there, in which they could converse and try and convince you of a little caper they've been trying to get their head around for a while, and you seem to have the entry to this possible windfall of money. Scanlan, after courting this young, pixie-haired gnome–

SAM: I sort of knew in the back of my head, right? No, I was courting her. No, it's true.

(laughter)

MATT: Was instead confronted in his bedroom by Kaylie, who revealed herself to be Scanlan's long-unknown daughter from many years ago, who had trained very hard as a bard at the College of the White Duke, in Westruun, and honed her skills with a blade with the intent of finding you one day and disgracing you. Thanks to Scanlan's sudden realization, change of heart, and attempt to connect with his lost blood, broke a bit of that cold honed exterior, and managed to prevent a very dangerous and possibly deadly encounter. She left frustrated and confused, and hasn't been seen since. The rest of you, gathering the next morning, discussed this endeavor with Dr. Dranzel and how they had found a home that had been long abandoned after being purchased by a collector. A home that you guys had ransacked a little over a year before after finding a portal within that led to a dragon's hoard, as the previous person who lived there, General Krieg, was actually a dragon who had infiltrated the Council.

LAURA: A really hot dragon. I remember thinking he was really cute. I had a thing for General Krieg. I was really sad when it turned out he was–

MATT: I'm sorry it worked out that way.

LIAM: That dragon had a lot of bling, too, if I remember.

MATT: Yeah, that was Grog's famous rage looting. General Krieg, Bonescythe– Brimscythe, sorry. They're close. Brimscythe the Dragon was slaughtered in this endeavor, however it's been over a year since. You guys returned to this house, scoured it, found your way through the still existing secret passage that led you to the now partially collapsed cavern, which once housed Brimscythe and his hoard. You found that the tunnel itself, freezing cold, the rubble of the partially collapsed cavern had been ravaged by some sort of large clawed entity that Vex had identified as another equally dangerous dragon that seems to have rummaged through and found the corpse of Brimscythe. You also found that a number of gold coins, a bit of his hoard that had been buried in this, were now exposed by these strange, smooth tunnels that were carved into the rock. Upon you, Scanlan, and Trinket inquiring there, the rest of the party scattered. Pike and Keyleth went to find what seemed to be the owner of the house, now frozen in fright in a far alcove. And the three, the rest of your group, traveling towards the mouth of the cavern itself, before the ground begins to rumble. Suddenly, exploding from the rock and shale of the bottom of the cavern floor, you guys managed to see before you, piercing forth from the ground itself, a very, very large, segmented, armored, worm-like entity.

SAM: Armored?

MATT: The actual hide itself is like very, very thick.

LAURA: Super thick? Ugh!

SAM: Like with armor?

MATT: Not with armor, just this natural sense.

LAURA: When we kill it, we can make armor out of him.

LIAM: And it was pale and icy, too, I think you were describing?

MATT: It was darkish purple in its color and tint, like dark blacks, purple, with rows and rows of teeth coming out of its eyeless face. As it bursts out of the surface, I need you all to roll initiative.

LAURA: No!

SAM: Oh my god, right away, right away. We're just in it. Just like that.

TRAVIS: Fuck yeah!

MATT: All right, so. 25 to 20?

TRAVIS: 20, to kill Scanlan.

(laughter)

MATT: 20 to 15?

MARISHA: 19.

SAM: That's it?

LIAM: 15.

MATT: 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: Ten.

SAM: 11.

MATT: All right, then comes ten to five?

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: And Pike, while, as she's not here, rolled the lowest. Ashley, unfortunately, due to scheduling, could not be here this evening. So far, we're hoping she might show up at some point tonight, we'll find out. But, in the meantime, I'm going to be running Pike on my end. So, starting the encounter, as you see this giant worm creature through the tunnel, the three of you now walking the other direction, you, feeling the rumble, turn around, holding forth your greatsword unsheathed, you can feel the power pulsing with each beat of your blood through your body, as a little voice in the back of your head, stemming from your weapon, goes, “Kill.” You're up, Grog.

TRAVIS: Well, I hope you're hungry. But you have to wait one second, we're a bit far away. Can I travel as far as I can towards?

MATT: Speed of 50, I believe?

TRAVIS: 50.

LAURA: Oh, I said I hid at the end of the episode. I said I hid.

MATT: Right, roll stealth.

TRAVIS: Do I have a line of sight with him, or is the edge of that outcropping blocking it?

MATT: He would have half cover if you were to try and like, throw your weapon at him. It'd be a plus five to his armor class.

MARISHA: Pike and I are hiding, too.

MATT: Okay, stealth check for both of you.

TRAVIS: Could I back up three squares, so that I could move to my left so I could get a straight look at him?

MATT: There, you mean?

TRAVIS: Can I go one more?

MATT: That's the extent of your movement right there, unfortunately. Unless you want to go at this angle, there. There you go.

TRAVIS: Can I use the Javelin of Lightning?

SAM: What the fuck is that? That's a thing you made up.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, I've got it. I utter the magic word “Penelope” and I throw it and each creature in the line, excluding me and the target, must make a DC 13 dexterity saving throw.

MATT: Okay, there are no creatures in the line, just the target.

TRAVIS: Just the target then.

LIAM: Did you get that in Yug'Voril?

TRAVIS: Huh?

LIAM: Yug'Voril. Is it from Yug'Voril?

TRAVIS: I don't remember, it's just in the bag.

LIAM: In Yug'Voril, at the bottom of that pit, when he headbutted the giant.

MATT: Yup, that was in the rubble.

LIAM: Yeah! Ding!

MATT: Good memory!

TRAVIS: Can I try and throw it?

MATT: You may, go for it.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18 total? 18 just hits. So, go ahead and roll damage for the javelin. As you rear back, aim it with your eyes, and the frustration is palpable from Craven Edge as you put it aside to throw the javelin instead as it arcs into a bolt of energy that streaks forth, slams into the hide of the giant purple worm. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19. All righty. Great. It rears in place, shakes itself for a second. It has no eyes, so it's not looking in any different direction, it just seems to be flailing in its current location.

TRAVIS: Can I go into a rage?

MATT: Yes you may.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: All right. (laughs)

LAURA: Are you rolling your special dice?

MATT: As you bite your lower lip, you feel and taste the blood begin to enter your mouth, and at that point the heat in the back of your shoulders and neck begins to swell up. Grog's into a rage. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Can I do, like, a nature check on this thing to see if I can discern any type of information on it?

MATT: Sure. Go ahead and make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Just straight intelligence? That's not good. I think that is a five? Six! Six!

MATT: Six. You have no recollection of this type of an entity in your travels. It's definitely not natural, it's not of nature, and you've seen various types of eyeless worm-type creatures, but nowhere near on this scale. So, yeah. You have no idea beyond that.

MARISHA: I'm just going to whisper to Pike, and be like: It doesn't have any eyes! I feel like we shouldn't move!

MATT: She goes, “Okay!” And she gets as still as she possibly can. “It's good! Moving's not my forte.”

MARISHA: Okay! I, like, hold her shoulder pads so she doesn't clink any.

MATT: “Okay!”

MARISHA: Okay! I'm going to stay right here!

MATT: All right. So that ends your turn. Vax, you're up. Unless you want to do something else on your turn, is that it?

MARISHA: I'm just, I'm just going to, I don't want to move. I'm just going to wait.

SAM: (mocking) I don't want to, I don't want to move!

MARISHA: I don't want to move!

LIAM: Click the Boots of Haste, and I want to go stealth, and scoot to that column past Grog, but closer to the worm. Not that one, the next one. Yeah. I think I can make it there.

MATT: All right. You can get there.

LIAM: Do I need to roll stealth?

MATT: You can roll stealth, yeah.

LIAM: I want to throw a dagger at it. Yeah. That is 28.

MATT: All right. That definitely hits. However, it is not sneak attack damage. You are hiding definitely behind the pillar, but your footsteps. And you get the essence as soon as you see the creature, its head follows you across the room, you get the sense immediately that it is not a sight-based creature, it is definitely a movement-based creature, and its head just follows you as you move.

LIAM: I'll defer, but let me ask, going stealth and rolling a 28 on stealth, the footsteps were still enough to alert it to where I was?

MATT: Is it a natural 20?

LIAM: I didn't attack yet. No, it was a combined 28, just to go stealth.

MATT: A combined 28. Right, even so, not quite light enough. Not with the knowledge that it was an issue with this entity, and due to the proximity of it, and it being a very sensitive creature to the rock's movement, it still picks you up.

LIAM: And I should have one attack. I should have an attack, right? Because I did the boots, I ran over here–

MATT: Yep, so you have an attack.

LIAM: Two.

MATT: Well, two attacks, you have offhand, so yeah.

LIAM: Two, yeah. Two, because it was double the speed because of the boots. All right. First one is shit. That is 14. And the second one is– I'm going to do Luck on that. The second one is 20.

MATT: The second one hits. The first one unfortunately just bounces off of its hide.

LIAM: That's not a lot. But it is seven points of damage.

MATT: Seven points of damage, got it.

LIAM: First blood. First blood, everyone.

SAM: It's looking pretty beat up.

MATT: All right. At this point in time, the dagger embeds itself in. You see the hilt sinks into the hide and then vanishes in a puff of smoke as it returns to your belt, however you can see a little bit of black liquid pouring forth from it, and its head has been trained on you since you moved across the room. The worm now disappears beneath the ground.

TALIESIN: Not cool.

MATT: And you feel the ground beneath you begin to shake, as it bursts out of the ground. That's a 20 to hit.

LIAM: 20? Can I use Evasion or no?

MATT: To reduce the damage in half if you want. Huh? What's your AC?

LIAM: Oh, with the boots on, 18.

MATT: It rolled a 20.

LIAM: Yeah, I know. So tell me what happens.

MATT: So, as you look around you all of a sudden the jaws start coming up out of the ground behind you, the teeth biting into your body as you try and wrest yourself away from its grip. You take 20 points of piercing damage.

LIAM: Oh, well, Uncanny Dodge. Right? Evasion is for spell effects–

MATT: Right, Evasion does not help you in this circumstance, Uncanny Dodge allows you to reduce the damage by half. So yes, you can do that. So you take ten damage instead. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: That's okay. All right, so. Okay. Natural 20!

MATT: As the jaws attempt to clamp around you, you manage to just pull yourself away, tearing your knees across the teeth, but rolling in the opposite direction, right in the place where you were as it bursts out of the ground just beside you and rights itself around in that direction. As its full body emerges now, you can see its tail flop out of the tunnel it just made with this giant hooked stinger on the end as it whips off in your direction. That is going to be a 15 to hit.

TRAVIS: That'll miss.

MATT: That misses you. As the stinger swings towards you, you manage to just duck out of the way, your eyes trained on it in an absolute red fury, and it just whiffs past your face.

SAM: Could've been bad, could've been bad.

MATT: That ends its turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Who's in front of me?

MATT: Right now you're next to Trinket and Vex is behind you.

LAURA: (laughing) Don't be a dick!

SAM: I'm not going to be a dick. I brush past Trinket so I can see the worm.

MATT: Okay, about there, you can see it from that perspective.

SAM: Okay I hold up my cone, my Hand Cone of Clarity, and I will cast Eyebite. Singing to it (singing) Scanlan's eyes are biting you. Making you very sick. Ooh, Scanlan's eyes are biting you. Scanlan's eyes! All right, so the Eyebite refers to my eyes. He doesn't need eyes. He doesn't need to be able to see me, I have to be able to see him, right? It works. Okay, so I'm going to do Sicken.

MATT: To sicken it? All right. All right, it rolls, this is a wisdom saving throw? It rolls an eight. So yeah, it does not succeed on that. Eyebite takes hold. Get this little marker on there, on its neck, like a little– There we go. So as your spell completes on it, you can see its form contracts for a second and its head hangs a little less strong as it did previously. It almost goes slack for a moment from the impact of the spell affecting its physical form. All right, so it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, for as long as it lasts. All right, so that's your movement, that's your action, any bonus actions?

SAM: I will inspire Vex. With a limerick.

LAURA: I can't wait.

SAM: I once knew a bear named Trinket, and would often tell you he stink-et, but you were appalled, so you kicked me in the balls, and now I don't say it, I just think it.

(laughter)

LAURA: That was wonderful!

MATT: A d10 inspiration die to you, Vex.

LAURA: Yay!

LIAM: Plus or minus?

MATT: (laughs) We'll see.

MARISHA: Am I able to take a bonus action to like shout something out over comms?

MATT: I'll allow it, since you held your turn this turn anyways, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah? Everyone should try and get a little bit so I can see you. And I can make us all fly.

LAURA: (shouting) What? You can make us fly?

MARISHA: I learned it today. But you have to be within 30 feet of me.

LAURA: Oh, really, but I'm so far away from you.

MARISHA: You know, imagine I said it more succinctly than this.

MATT: (laughs) That's as much as you can get out. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to head in the direction of the message I just received. So I'm going to crawl around the bottom there.

LAURA: Ugh, I'm not going to be able to get to her.

MATT: That's as far as you can get.

TALIESIN: That's as far as I can get, that's fine. I'm going to take a couple shots, with the big gun. I'm going to Bad News this. So, let's take a shot at that guy. Yeah, that's reasonable range. Yeah, okay. Not too close. That's not bad, 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: 28 points of damage.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Quick reload, going to get one more shot off and I'm going to take this one with the sharpshooter effect just to see how things go.

MATT: Sure. The sharpshooter effect, you mean the deadeye?

TALIESIN: Yep. Yeah, the deadeye. The negative five to hit.

MATT: Oh, got you, got you, all right.

TALIESIN: 14.

MATT: 14 does not hit, unfortunately. As you load the second round, you pull Bad News in front of you and you go to fire, the ground actually shakes beneath you. There's a quaking. Not sure if it's from the creature or just the atmosphere around you, but as you do the gun just misfires and, well, it actually doesn't misfire, but it fires off into one of the side elements of the cave and you hear it ricochet off the rock.

TALIESIN: That's what I got.

MATT: All right, that's 28 damage, 28 damage is not bad.

All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. Will you be able to move forward?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to send Trinket up to that little alcove. Keep running, no, a little further– a little further.

MATT: That's– what's Trinket's movement? Is it 40? So he can go there.

LAURA: That's as close as he can get to you.

MATT: Six, actually seven, eight. So that'd be the full movement.

LAURA: Okay. Get him tucked into that little side.

MATT: Trinket is now stepping onto a bit of slick of ice and is like (unbalanced bear noises) but seems to be okay at the moment.

LAURA: Okay. And then I move forward so I can see him. Right there. All right. And I'm going to Hunter's Mark him! And then I'm going to shoot my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel at him. So that, I'm going to shoot an arrow and it divides into three arrows and they all turn into storm arrows. So I roll an attack for each one of those for my first attack.

MATT: Correct. Yep. Yep. As you release the arrow from the actual tension of the bow, as soon as it leaves your fingers it almost burns the tips as it races into this arrow of pure energy. As it divides in the middle of the air, you can see each arrow sparking off bits of electrical power on its–

LAURA: Okay, so the first one is a 26.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Should I roll damage for that one?

MATT: Roll to see how many hit.

LAURA: The second one is a 29.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: The third one is a 20.

MATT: 20 hits. Yeah, all three hit.

LIAM: This is all happening in less than six seconds.

LAURA: 17– 20. 23 for the first arrow.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Nine, ten, 11, 13. 17 for the second one. And then 14, 15, 16…

SAM: I feel bad for this thing.

LAURA: 22. 20, what is that? 27 for the third.

MATT: Oof, all right. As each arrow slams into its side, you can see portions of its large chitinous, almost like armored shell crack and break open. And you can see now these streams of black worm blood are spilling down its side. And it starts shaking in place now in pain.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to shoot through my Blazing Bowstring for my second attack.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Second attack?

LAURA: Yeah, that was just one.

MATT: Yeah, she gets that once a day.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

TRAVIS: You have more dice than that dice store.

LAURA: I know, it's ridiculous. 16– 16– 19, and then an additional d10. So 19 of fire damage. So 25 for the third.

MATT: 25. Oof. That is a nasty round. Well done.

LAURA: For the fourth arrow.

MATT: As this fourth arrow slams into its side there's a burst of fire from the impact and you can see it now. It's starting to shriek this horrible high-pitched multi-toned scream. All right, that ends your turn.

LAURA: And I rolled a 15 for stealth, not that it probably matters anymore.

MATT: Nah, no, it doesn't really. All right.

LAURA: And then I stay very, very still.

MATT: Cool, so does Pike. Pike's going to follow in Keyleth's order and spend the round just keeping in place, very quietly. All right, top of the round again. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Oh, are we flying?

ALL: No.

TRAVIS: Fuck it! I take Craven Edge out. I hope you're hungry. And I would like to go into a frenzied rage.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: And I would like to attack, the first two times, at the big purple dick that just came out of the ground.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Hey, move down a bit so you're not in my way.

TRAVIS: Which way?

MATT: Grog's just charging in.

TRAVIS: That's a 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

TRAVIS: 20?

MATT: 20 hits.

TRAVIS: Wow. 26?

MATT: All three hit. These are non-Great Weapon Master, right?

TRAVIS: The third one I wanted it to be, should I reroll since I didn't specify?

MATT: Reroll because you didn't say it, yeah.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: That misses, unfortunately. But the first two do hit. Yeah, you got to mention that before you make the attack.

TRAVIS: I do, I do. You're right. 2d6. What do sixes look like? They're squares.

LAURA: They're squares.

(laughter)

SAM: Cubes, really.

TRAVIS: Jeez, three, eight, 16 for the first one.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: And 16 for the second one.

MATT: All righty. What's the DC on the sword effect, again? Is it 12?

TRAVIS: Oh! Yep.

MATT: All right. So it succeeds its first saving throw and it succeeds its second saving throw. But you do see with each strike the intent of the sword to draw some of the strength and life force from the target. Not really making any effect, unfortunately. All right! Ending your turn, Grog, that vibration you feel in the ground, now? It's curious, because the worm itself is out of the ground, now. What caused you to lose your shot? You feel it grow stronger and stronger, before suddenly, nearby, a secondary, different-looking, but similar in size, worm comes bursting out of the base of the cavern.

LAURA: Matthew Mercer! You're trying to kill us.

MATT: You can see now, as this bursts out, it's similar in size, but different. This one has a thicker body, it's a purple and white type exterior, and you can see frozen mist is just emanating from the outside of its open jaw.

LAURA: No, this is the one that pukes ice.

MARISHA: (laughs) Pukes ice?

LAURA: This is what made the dude frozen!

MATT: As this one rears back, opens its jaw, and a burst of cold air and ice shards comes spraying out of its mouth–

LAURA: Look at this cone you have.

MATT: Heading towards these– actually, it would get the other worm too.

LAURA: Yes! Yes! Freeze the other worm!

MATT: I need a constitution saving throw from Grog and Vax.

LIAM: I want to do an Evasion, that's an area effect!

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: Make your constitution saving throw.

LIAM: All right. (laughs) Do I do the dex save first, or–?

MATT: It's not a dex save. Constitution save.

LIAM: Oh, it's not an area effect? All right. Whatever you say. Natural 20.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: 21. All right. Good.

TRAVIS: Saving throw, right? Constitution?

MATT: Constitution saving throw. So, read your ability real fast, does it affect only dex saves?

LIAM: Evasion on dex save– I've written an abbreviated version of this. It's area of effect, if it's like Fireball or anything that's in an area.

MATT: Right, but I think it may specify whether or not–

LIAM: Oh, but you're god, what do you want me to do?

MATT: I'm just looking it up right now, give me a second.

TRAVIS: Ooh! I have Danger Sense. I have advantage on dexterity saving throws.

MATT: This is not dexterity. This is constitution.

SAM: Oh, but you know what? I have really good dexterity.

MATT: Yep, dexterity saving throw. So this does not affect this attack. Sorry. All right, so you both take half damage, as does the creature.

TALIESIN: That's a lot of rolling.

SAM: He's only rolling a d2. He's rolling a d2.

MATT: All right! That's 40 points of damage, halved, that's 20 points of cold damage to each of you, and the purple worm.

LIAM: Wait, 40 or 20?

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: It does 40 points?!

LIAM: Can I do Uncanny– this is a new round, can I do Uncanny or not, yet?

MATT: It has not gotten back to your turn, so no.

LAURA: We're going to die!

TRAVIS: No, we're good! Shut up! We're fine!

MATT: All right. Now! It's Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Here's what I want to try and do. I want to try and hope to god I can get everyone in here.

LIAM: Shake that hangover off, Kiki.

MARISHA: I wanted to– oh wait, I'm trying to point the fucking– point the laser at the screen.

MATT: Yeah, don't point at the screen. Point it at the actual map. That's okay.

MARISHA: I want to try and go– five, ten, 15– can I go through Grog? Through there?

MATT: You can try to, yeah.

LAURA: You're going to go past the worm, though!

MARISHA: Can I go there? Wait, wait, back closer to the– I want to be able to try and– can I see Scanlan and stuff, over there?

MATT: You can see Scanlan, you can see pretty much everybody but Trinket from this perspective, and you can't see Pike.

LAURA: Shit.

MARISHA: All right.

LAURA: Thought I was helping.

MARISHA: Everyone, I guess, who's within 30 range of me, I'm going to do a wind blast, and we all turn into poofy cloud versions of ourselves.

MATT: Which one is this?

MARISHA: Wind Walk. Poofy Cloud. So as I run past Grog, I brush his shoulder, and he turns into a mist form, and I turn into a mist form, and then I blast it out, and everyone's mist form!

MATT: All right, cool. So while in mist form, you guys have a flying speed of 300 feet, you have resistance to non-magical weapons, you can only dash.

MARISHA: Oh, you can't attack?

MATT: No. You've got to read your spell. You can take a minute to revert your form, but as of right now, all of you guys currently, everyone within 30 feet.

SAM: I'm not within 30 feet.

MATT: You can see within range, so you can't see Pike. You've got to read the spell. Does not affect Trinket because you can't see Trinket. Doesn't affect you guys. Scanlan is just out of range. So Vex and Scanlan, you're unaffected. You watch half of the party turn into these gaseous forms.

SAM: Oh my god, the worms have turned us all into clouds!

LAURA: You've left us stranded. We're going to die.

MARISHA: No, we're still there.

MATT: It takes a minute to revert to your actual form to be able to do any sort of attack.

MARISHA: Man, that was going to be way cooler if we could still…

TALIESIN: I'm going to do something insane. I've got some plans.

MARISHA: It was a 6th-level spell.

MATT: I know.

SAM: It was so good.

MARISHA: Thanks, guys. I feel so validated.

LIAM: She just learned it yesterday!

MARISHA: I did just learn it yesterday.

MATT: Vax, it's your turn.

LIAM: And I'm made of wind?

MATT: You're made of wind. You can move. You can dash, or you can begin to revert, if you'd like.

LIAM: I can begin to revert? So it's a minute-long process that I have to consciously decide, and I know this?

MATT: You get the feeling that if you want to return, it will take you a while because you don't really know what to do with your form.

MARISHA: We could try and get the fuck out of here.

LIAM: I'm going to use disengage and I'm going to fart over towards my sister and Pike.

MATT: You cannot disengage. You can only dash in this form.

LIAM: Oh, then I'm going to dash towards my sister and Pike.

LAURA: Pike is on the other side. Me and Scanlan.

LIAM: Oh. Scanlan and Vex, sorry.

MATT: So you move over.

SAM: Not all short people look alike.

MATT: You dash over here. That guy's going to take an attack of opportunity on you. He's going to have disadvantage, technically, because you all of a sudden stopped moving and it just hears the sound. It rolled a three. No. It whips past you with its mouth biting at nothing.

LIAM: I want to land and then start thinking, god, I wish I was not made of farts, and start trying to undo whatever this is.

MATT: Okay. Ten rounds later, you will be a physical entity.

LAURA: Ten rounds?!

MATT: A minute.

LIAM: Dispel Magic, little man!

LAURA: Okay, can I see him? Can I shoot through him?

MATT: You can shoot through him. He'll take half damage.

LIAM: I'm crouching!

MARISHA: We could use this to our advantage and get the fuck away, so I don't feel like I just wasted a 6th-level spell. Just want to say.

LIAM: Fog of war, man.

MATT: Do you have Dispel Magic, Scanlan?

SAM: That would have been great.

(laughter)

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: I technically do, but fuck that.

LAURA: You can float up to the ceiling and then attack from high.

MARISHA: I did learn Dispel Magic, but–

SAM: Well, dispel your own shit.

MARISHA: No! Figure it out! Make it work for yourselves, assholes. That was a 6th-level spell, god damn it.

MATT: Did you make yourself mist, as well?

MARISHA: Yeah! It's ten people!

MATT: You can't cast a spell in mist form, either.

MARISHA: We're all shit out of luck! How does that feel?

MATT: So who's left, currently? That finishes Vax's turn.

LIAM: Everyone who's a cloud, we're floating back to Emon. Let's go.

TALIESIN: (singing) I can show you the world.

MARISHA: I thought we could still attack, which would be way dope.

MATT: That would be dope, but that would be way too powerful a spell for sixth level. This is more of a means of travel spell, or a means of escape spell.

LIAM: Let's solve the problem

LAURA: But half of the party is still not able to escape.

MARISHA: If you don't move, they'll go away.

MATT: This creature, now, having been hit by the terrifying Eyebite spell, its insides churning and the impact from damage it's taken, it's looking like it had a harsh round last turn. As all of the movement suddenly (poof) vanishes and there's no general movement, the last thing it recalls that was in its vicinity and still shifting with a heartbeat across the ground is you, Scanlan. (impact noise) It bursts out of the ground right in front of you. It brings its jaw down over the top, with disadvantage. That's a natural 20, so thank god it has disadvantage. 19.

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words to try and not have it hit me.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'll sing, (singing) do you really want to hurt me? Do you really want to bite my body? Okay, that taunts him.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10 to reduce that from the attack.

SAM: A d10. this one? Wait, that's yours; why am I doing yours?

MATT: That's a 19 plus nine. This is 28 is what it rolled total.

SAM: 28 is what it rolled total?!

MATT: It rolled a 19 on the dice.

SAM: Oh fuck, even if I rolled a ten, I couldn't do anything. I rolled a three.

MATT: Okay, so as you're singing this, its jaw comes down on you (slamming sound), bites down painfully onto Scanlan for– that's the wrong dice–

TALIESIN: This could go worse.

MARISHA: Shut up, Taliesin.

MATT: 19 points of piercing damage. And I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: I'm great at those. Dexterity saving throw. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, sure, that's a five.

MATT: Those of you who are watching, you see as the mouth (impact sound) chomps down on Scanlan and as it pulls away, Scanlan is nowhere in sight, having been swallowed by the purple worm.

TALIESIN: Oh, shit!

MATT: You are blinded and restrained, and yeah. You just see darkness and you feel the muscles constricting as you're forced down its throat. As your feet splash into what seems to be some sort of highly acidic liquid that resides in the inside of its body.

SAM: Tell me this, Dungeon Master. Earlier when I had done my Eyebite thing, I had my cone up here. When he grabbed me was the cone still close to my mouth?

MATT: Sure, we'll say that. However, I do need you to make a concentration check because of the damage you sustained on this.

SAM: Okay. Concentration check. Concentration? I've never rolled for concentration. Oh wait!

MATT: I know, I'm trying to keep up on that more now.

SAM: I have advantage on spell concentration.

MATT: Because of your feat that you took.

SAM: Well, that wasn't good either. So one was a five and one was a ten. Do I add anything to that?

MATT: All right so, it's a constitution saving throw and half the damage you took. So you're trying to beat a nine.

SAM: Constitution. So 12.

MATT: So 12. So yes, you succeed. So you currently, even though you're constrained, you're still maintaining your Eyebite spell against the purple worm.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: All right. So that ends the worm's turn. Scanlan, it is now your turn.

SAM: Great. I don't want be in here anymore.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Can I look around? It's dark. It seems cozy. Seems nicer than outside right now, actually. I dip my finger in the acid. Ooo!

MATT: (sizzling sound) Not fun, not fun.

SAM: It's not good. So I'm going to make him barf me up.

MARISHA: Oh that's right, it was sick, right?

MATT: It's sickened currently by the spell effect you put, yeah.

SAM: I'm going to cast, at level five, Thunderwave. With my Hand Cone of Clarity up in my grill. I'm going to explode him from the inside.

MATT: All right, Thunderwave. So at fifth level, that would be an additional 4d8. That is 6d8 thunder damage.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

SAM: Where's the d8s?

MATT: It makes a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: He's inside. Come on, Armageddon this motherfucker.

MATT: That is a 16 on the saving throw.

SAM: 19 is my save.

MATT: So, 6d8.

SAM: What's that? I've already lost count. 15 plus seven. Whatever that is.

MATT: 22 points of–

SAM: Wait 6d8, yeah okay.

MATT: Okay. It (impact sound) booms from the inside and you can see a central part of the worm (muffled boom) billow out like a cartoon as this bit of smoke emanates from its mouth. Just the sheer force of it forces you a little ways up its throat, but not enough to jettison yourself out of its body. Its muscles are too strong and you feel like you need to do a little more damage to it from the inside to be able to escape.

SAM: Okay. But it did hurt it, yes?

MATT: It hurt it, yeah. It took some damage. And at this point as well, you (grunt) feel your body being pulled inward and crushed by the muscles. Percy. You're up, Mr. Mistform.

TALIESIN: Okay. These creatures have no eyes.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: I'm made of smoke.

MATT: (affirmative sound)

TALIESIN: (sighs) Okay.

TRAVIS: Yes. Well established.

TALIESIN: As long as we're all clear here what's going on, that's fine. And I can just dash?

MATT: That's all you can do. Or begin to try and revert, which will take ten rounds.

TALIESIN: Well, and can I still move around and do things while I'm trying to revert or is it– Reverting. Am I just stuck reverting?

MATT: You know, that's a good question.

TALIESIN: Can I just make the decision?

MATT: I think you can still move around, you just think you have to have concentration towards it, I'll have to–

TALIESIN: I'm going to have my concentration on reverting. But in the meantime, I'm going to–

MATT: You can use your action to begin to revert your form, yeah.

TALIESIN: I have to use my action?

MATT: However, nope! Reverting takes a minute, during which time a creature is incapacitated and can't move.

TALIESIN: (sputtering)

MATT: So yeah. So currently–

MARISHA: Yeah he's really married to this one.

MATT: It took me ten seconds to read it!

LIAM: So to get out of this form, we have to stop and like meditate in one position for a full minute. What does it dissipate without doing that? How long does it take?

MATT: Eight hours.

LIAM: Eight hours, good.

MARISHA: Wait, what? No, no, no! One– Oh no, yeah, you're right.

SAM: Can't you just kill it? Wait a second, hold on a second.

MARISHA: Yeah, can I not kill it at all? I can't kill it?

MATT: Not if you're in wind form, no.

MARISHA: Question. Can I switch to an animal form?

MATT: You cannot take any other action aside from dash or reverting when in this form.

TALIESIN: Can I dash into one of the creatures?

MARISHA: Why would you do that?

MATT: I mean, you could try to. You would surround it with smoke.

LAURA: You're made of wind!

TALIESIN: It wouldn't know that I was there? It wouldn't–

TRAVIS: You could either dispel it or you could flee.

TALIESIN: Okay, well I had the thought of maybe I could attempt to get them to attack each other.

MATT: I mean, that can be attempted. How are you going to do that? No, you can't talk in this form. What are you trying to do?

TALIESIN: I'm attempting to tap them to get them to think that there's something happening where the worms are to get them to attack.

SAM: Like a Three Stooges thing.

MATT: Okay, so you swirl this way as a dash and attempt to make an impact. I'll say go ahead and make a strength check.

TALIESIN: Really?

MATT: Yes. With disadvantage and a serious penalty. Because you're mist. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Natural 20, Motherfucker!

MATT: Okay, roll again, because it's with disadvantage.

TALIESIN: (screams)

(laughter)

LIAM: Here comes the one.

TALIESIN: Baby, I know we've been arguing a lot lately. But I want you to know I take it all back, I take it all back. I'm going to buy you something so nice. I'm going to buy you ice cream. I'm going to buy you good ice cream! I'm going to go to Scoops. Three, motherfucker.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Which brings me to four.

MATT: All right. As the coldish mist of Percy batters itself helplessly and ineffective against the body of the giant frost worm creature, seeming to no effect as it's now keeping itself attentive on what is nearby and within its range of motion.

TALIESIN: I will use an action surge and start turning back into a normal human then.

MATT: Well, you can continue to use your movement; you only moved a short bit.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to move behind it then. That way. No, I mean far away from it. And then I'm going to use an action surge and start meditating on it.

MATT: Okay, it does attempt to take an attack of opportunity as it just feels you rush by. Nah, it misses. Rolled a two.

TALIESIN: That's what it feels like, motherfucker.

MATT: All right. So, that end your turn?

TALIESIN: Yeah that ended it.

MATT: All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Cool.

SAM: Vex, you and me babe, all we got to do is last ten rounds. Of course, all you hear is (muffled cries).

LAURA: I know, I've got to save you!

TALIESIN: Trinket's there too.

LAURA: I know.

MATT: Oh, I get to make the save to see if the Eyebite maintains itself. That would be a– no, it rolled a ten and it's minus two on its wisdom save. So it still has disadvantage on its attacks.

LAURA: Okay, all right. Are there any stalactites coming from the ceiling?

MATT: There are, actually. There's a number of them. Just in this general vicinity there's a whole mess of them up above from just the natural formation of it.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to shoot Conjure Barrage at the ceiling and try to create noise away from us.

MATT: Whereabouts?

LAURA: How about towards the ceiling above the frost worm?

MATT: Over there? Okay. All right, so, okay. The frost worm is in the way to hit that angle, so you may have to move to do so.

LAURA: Which way could I shoot that he would not be in the way?

MATT: You have to probably move this way to get around him just to hit him at this angle just because it's such a large entity.

LAURA: Huh? God, I don't know. I mean.

MATT: What you got?

LAURA: I'm going to move as quietly as I can around towards that little crevice.

MATT: Go ahead and make a general dexterity check.

LAURA: Just add my dexterity to it? 17?

MATT: 17? Okay. As you move past, stepping as gingerly as you can, you can see it slap; it moves its face in the direction of where you're going, but you just manage to move beyond where it thought you were, and it misses you as you move by. So now you have visual on it.

LAURA: Okay. Now I want to shoot Conjure Barrage at the ceiling above the frost one.

MATT: Okay. Conjure Barrage up here. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Okay. That is 3d8, I guess. 14 plus five. What's 14 plus five? 19.

MATT: 19 damage? All right. And with that, you release a blasting torrent of arrows at the ceiling in this giant cone blast. It strikes into the ceiling through the force of the magical bow that you're holding. You can see a number of rocks in bits and pieces begin to chip off, and a few small stalactites crack and plummet downward. I need a dex save from Grog and Keyleth.

MARISHA: Dex save?

MATT: Dex save.

LIAM: We still take damage in this form, right?

MATT: You do. You just take half damage from non-magical sources.

MARISHA: Regular dexterity save or do we get advantage because we're misty?

MATT: You have resistance to non-magical weapons.

MARISHA: Do we have advantage?

MATT: No. You take half damage because you're misty.

MARISHA: I don't think I made my dexterity check.

MATT: What did you roll?

MARISHA: A two.

TRAVIS: I have advantage. Danger sense. Dexterity saving throws. Total of 20.

MATT: There you go. All right, so that is a total of seven damage to Keyleth, halved to four because you're in mist form. Seven damage to the frost worm.

LAURA: Seven damage because of the stalactites?

MATT: Yep. They fell on it. Four damage to you.

LAURA: I'm going to look over at Trinket, and I'm going to go–

MATT: Actually, no damage to you because you completely dodged out of the way.

LAURA: I'm going to go like this to Trinket, and I'm going to shoot another arrow. I can't do the same thing. I'm going to shoot an arrow at the ceiling right above the frost thing, and then I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, god. That didn't do any– Well, I was hitting a stalactite, which is totally still, so it was 13?

MATT: 13? Because of your half-elf eyes, able to see in this dark interior of the cavern, I'd say yes, that hits. Barely.

LAURA: So just a regular d8. Yep. 11.

MATT: 11 damage, all right. 11 damage. It falls. Yeah, it does not make its resistance to the fall, so the stalactite falls. Larger than the previous ones that were knocked out by the barrage that loosened it up. This one crumbles, slamming into the head of the frost worm for three points of bludgeoning damage. All right.

LAURA: And then I stealth for 21 points of stealth.

MATT: Okay, good to know. All right. Ending your turn, it's now Pike. Pike, who currently is confused by the circumstances that have currently happened. She steps out. She's not mist. She steps out.

LAURA: Why would you do that?! Why would you do that? You're going to kill her.

TRAVIS: She would know better than that!

LAURA: She would hide!

LIAM: She could be our saving grace. Let the man–

SAM: She's the only one who's got arms and legs right now.

MATT: Keyleth left the alcove after saying stay still, she saw a few individuals turn to mist on the outside. She's very worried and confused by the circumstances.

LAURA: I'm sorry, I didn't shoot an arrow. I just realized I didn't shoot an arrow at his worm and I meant to, and I'm sorry.

SAM: What worm? My worm?

LAURA: The one that you're in.

SAM: You could have hit me! It's okay. Don't worry.

MATT: Pike comes around the corner. “Guys? What's happening?” And all she sees is you disappear into the shadows on the side, Trinket being very quiet, and mist swirling in the space around as these two giant worms (growls) as parts of the cavern are collapsing into it.

LAURA: Can I do that to her?

MATT: She doesn't see you do it because you're hidden. No, she doesn't see you. She doesn't roll high enough perception. Right now, she feels alone and doesn't understand what she can possibly do in this. She doesn't have any indication of what to do in the circumstance, so she is going to–

TRAVIS: Does Pike have Dispel Magic?

MATT: She does.

SAM: She doesn't even know–

MATT: She doesn't know what's happening. She's going to cast Flame Strike, 5th-level spell. It's a ten-foot radius. She's going to blast this one right here, which is the one she sees now closest to her proximity and being ice-based. So that's 8d6 radiant damage.

SAM: Hey! Nice job, Pike!

MATT: 32 points of fire damage. Does not make its save. Suddenly from the ground, you see the rocks shake and lift for a second before a beam of divine fire (explosion) comes bursting out of the ground in a ten-foot radius around this worm. However, I do need a dexterity saving throw from both Grog and Keyleth.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: Keep your head in the game!

TRAVIS: 18.

MARISHA: What? Shut up, Liam.

LIAM: Get it. Get it, girl, get it.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16? So that's going to be 32 damage to that. That's going to be 16 damage to you, Grog, and 32 damage to you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: All right, 32.

MATT: Fire and radiant damage. As she just sees mist in the air around the frost worm and has no indication of exactly what happened. However, the frost worm did take it as well. That's going to end her turn as she isn't quite sure what to do at that point. That brings us to the top of the round, Grog.

TRAVIS: What do I–? I can't leave.

LAURA: Just back away from it.

TRAVIS: I'll just back up to the tunnel leading out of the– yeah.

MATT: Okay.

All right, that brings us to–

TRAVIS: Oh, and I'd like to start to revert, if I could.

MATT: Okay. You'll be there for a minute doing so. You can't move any further. You can't move, you're just sitting there focusing on– incapacitated.

TRAVIS: No, I don't start to revert.

MATT: Okay. All right, that completes your turn. Now we come to the frost worm's turn. The frost worm, first and foremost, it gets its frost breath back. It turns this way, burrows underneath, and, seeing all the movement to this side, goes ahead and unleashes a secondary frost breath in this direction. That will only affect the purple worm and Vax. I need you guys to make constitution saving throws.

LIAM: And I can't remember, Evasion has nothing to do with this?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to use Luck. My last Luck. That's not good. So constitution save?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Seven.

MATT: Seven? Nope. Purple worm also does not make it, so that'll be to both of you…

LAURA: So obviously these worms don't even care about each other at all.

MATT: No. Seemingly, in this moment you see now, there is not a kinship between them. If anything, they both arrived due to feeling the same movement and one is currently now attacking whatever is large and in the area that it doesn't recognize the center movement of.

MARISHA: Does that mean we could just get them fighting each other?

LAURA: That is what I'm thinking, we could get them to fight.

MATT: 36 points of cold damage to you. 36 points to the purple worm.

SAM: That halved?

MATT: No, it is magical damage, not blunt damage, so you just take it. Especially as mist, cold is bad as mist. All right, so with that, the purple–

SAM: Wait. Doesn't my worm take it too?

MATT: He did. Both of them are still there.

SAM: Still alive?

MATT: Yeah. Looking a little rough, but it's still alive. All right, that ends its turn. Now it's Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Okay, here's my question.

MATT: Yep?

TRAVIS: Probably no.

MARISHA: I know.

(laughter)

SAM: Can I juggle while I'm a mist?

MATT: If you wanted to, because it is your spell that you cast, even though it's technically not concentration–

MARISHA: I will say, we all failed in reading it, also–

SAM: Don't do this, don't do this!

TALIESIN: (laughs) Can't win.

LAURA: It's also what? What does it say?

MARISHA: Nothing.

TALIESIN: I'll say it if it makes you feel better?

LIAM: Why don't we let him say what he was going to say?

MATT: What were you going to say?

MARISHA: Nothing.

MATT: No, what's up?

MARISHA: I'm afraid now.

TALIESIN: As you should be. You're defying god.

SAM: What were you going to say, Matt?

MARISHA: Yeah, what were you going to say? (laughs) I like that question.

LAURA: Yeah, right? Since you cast it, you could break your concentration?

MATT: I'm saying, because you cast a spell that wasn't a concentration spell, if it was a positive effect, which it technically is, and you did not want it, you could cancel the spell. I'd let you do that. If you wanted to. What did I not read?

MARISHA: We all failed in reading it.

TALIESIN: Casting time.

MATT: One action.

TALIESIN: No.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: One minute.

MATT: It says one action on my thing.

MARISHA: It says one action on yours? It says one minute on mine.

MATT: Does it?

MARISHA: Yes, it does.

MATT: Thank you, Fight Club Five.

MARISHA: No, it's different. It says casting time one minute.

MATT: Let's see what the Player's Handbook says.

TALIESIN: Consult the book.

LAURA: It doesn't matter, it already happened.

MARISHA: It already happened, so it doesn't matter.

TRAVIS: Shouldn't there be an ad for Gilmore's Glorious Goods right about now?

MARISHA: Yeah, it's already happened, we're already committed.

MATT: In the Player's Handbook, Wind Walk is one minute, you're right.

MARISHA: One minute. So Fight Club failed.

MATT: Fight Club Five failed.

SAM: This is a reverse ad for Fight Club Five.

MATT: Or I have to update it. Either way. No, It might have been fixed since, I've just got to update it. All right. Well, anyway. In a bit of druidic inspiration, you manage to, very quickly, for the first time–

MARISHA: I mean, I'm still willing to commit to it. It's fine.

MATT: Being as an Air Ashari, this is your realm of expertise, and your first time using it, you were so excited that you managed to accelerate the casting of the spell, regardless of the situation it may have created, so, what do you want to do?

MARISHA: So I accelerated the casting of the spell.

LAURA: So you can cancel it if you feel like canceling it.

SAM: If you want to.

LAURA: Some people's brothers in the room are at a really low health level right now. I don't know who we're talking about, but some people's brothers–

MARISHA: Are you giving me an out because you feel bad? Because if you're giving me an out–

MATT: No, because technically it shouldn't have happened, because it was a one-minute casting time. There are many things in that spell that were not read, by the caster, so I'm giving you the opportunity to correct the mistake, if you wish not to take it, you can.

TALIESIN: I read the card too, I didn't see it.

MARISHA: He did read the card too, and we all thought it was a good idea.

MATT: This was a very hard and valuable lesson for casters.

LAURA: We're in the middle of a battle.

MARISHA: (laughing) For my own shame. All right fine, I'll drop the spell 'cause I feel really bad about it. But on my way down, okay, here's my question, because I want to make these fuckers fight each other. So, is there loose rock along the edge of the wall?

LAURA: I dropped stalactites on them. So yeah, there's lots of loose rock.

MATT: Yeah. And there's rubble on the ground next to it from where the original cave-in happened

MARISHA: Okay, so as I'm dropping the spell–

MATT: All of you who are mist form now revert, and you fall about five to ten feet and catch yourself on the ground, no harm no foul.

MARISHA: As I revert back can I slide down that wall to create some–

MATT: Did you want to move first over here to do it?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you shift over, you drop the spell.

MARISHA: Uh-huh, I drop the spell, and as I drop the spell I want to grab some wall and bring it down to make a big vibration, right in between these two motherfuckers.

MATT: Okay. Make a strength check.

MARISHA: Oh, jeez Louise. Oh, that's not too bad. It's not a saving throw.

MATT: Correct. Just a strength check; add your strength modifier.

MARISHA: 18?

MATT: 18. All right. So, as you slide down, you grab onto some of the loose rock and (rockslide) they come tumbling down as you slide down. So you land here, at the base of the two worms, and rocks tumble around you at the base of the cave-in. And you get the sensation that you may have made a decent bit of racket right around your feet.

MARISHA: Uh-huh. Do I have any movement?

MATT: I'd say you have half your movement.

MARISHA: Oh, Jesus Christ. Can I just tiptoe backwards towards Percy? Or should I– You know what? I'm going to stay. I'm just going to stay right there. Is that even worse of a decision?

MATT: I don't know. What do you want to do?

MARISHA: I'm just going to– up against the wall. And not move.

MATT: Okay. You're going to Doctor Grant this.

MARISHA: I'm going to Doctor Grant it.

MATT: Got it. Okay. Keyleth, that ends your turn, Vax, you're up. You now have your physical form again.

LIAM: Okay. I look around really fast, run up to my sister, give her a giant hug, and (magic sound) Dimension Door over to where Grog is.

SAM: You can Dimension Door; I keep forgetting that!

MATT: So as you rush over and grab onto her, you both (poof!) in a Nightcrawler-esque poof of smoke, as it settles, you are both no longer there, as– What's the range on the Dimension Door?

LIAM: Oh, it's so far, it's like 500 feet I believe. I'll find it.

MATT: I believe it is. Dimension Door, yeah, it's fine. 300 feet, you're fine. You guys appear over by Grog now.

LAURA: Is that the edge of a cliff over on that side?

MATT: It goes right to the edge, right there, and this is where it would go down the side of a giant, icy mountain. You guys are at the very, very top of a very cold, cragulous part of the Cliffkeep Mountains.

LAURA: Got it.

LIAM: I'm hasted; do I have one or two attacks at this point?

MATT: You have one attack right now.

LIAM: One attack? Okay.

MATT: You went up and did your action already.

LIAM: Action. Okay. Well then, I'm going to throw a dagger at the back of the frost one.

MATT: Okay. What's the range on your dagger?

LIAM: It's 60 feet, Sharpshooter, no disadvantage.

MATT: 60 feet. Just misses. You go (knife sound) and it just tumbles, scrapes across the ground, stops at the base of the worm, and then vanishes. All right, that ends your turn. Now it is this guy's turn. At the top of his turn, Scanlan, you– all right.

SAM: I'm in a nice womb.

MATT: You take…

TRAVIS: Uh-oh.

TALIESIN: All the damage.

TRAVIS: He grimaced. Still rolling.

MATT: 23 points of acid damage as it begins to digest you from the inside.

SAM: Aren't I immune to acid damage?

MATT: Are you?

SAM: Because of the feast?

MATT: No, poison.

SAM: Isn't that the same thing?

MATT: No.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So. The–

LAURA: Somebody's got something of Acid Resistance, though. Somebody has an item.

LIAM: I had armor and I gave it to someone, I don't have it anymore.

MATT: As the frost worm and the purple worm are now clashing in this space, they both turn, hearing the sound. Now, the frost damage that had impacted the purple worm last turn, let's see if it– Nope! It's going to retaliate for that, it's going to attempt to make a bite attack against the frost worm. That is going to be a 12, that is going to miss. However, hearing the noise, it's going to make a tail attack at the direction that Keyleth is– That's a natural one. As it arcs through, it (impact) right next to your head and then pulls out of the rubble. The rock to your left is now cracked and broken with a giant hole where the stinger had placed itself.

MARISHA: I hold my breath.

MATT: Yeah. Disadvantage on those attacks from that Eyebite is really bad. So that's been very helpful from Scanlan's point. By the way, Scanlan, make another concentration check because of the–

SAM: Concentration check. Yeah. Yeah, I'm okay. 18 and 19.

MATT: Yeah, you're fine. Okay. That ends the purple worm's turn, it's going to stay right there. Actually, no. It's going to burrow away, as currently it's made its attacks. It's going to burrow into the ground, and is currently not within anyone's visual range.

LAURA: I have it Hunter's Marked, can I feel it?

MATT: You can sense that it's underneath the ground, somewhere in this cavern.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: It's going down.

MATT: It's going through the ground, you feel it moving around.

TALIESIN: Shake it, shake it, shake it.

SAM: So it has poison, right? It's poisoned me– Oh, it has acid.

MATT: Yeah. It's acid. You're feeling yourself digest within its body.

SAM: Can I make an intelligence check to see if I know anything about these creatures?

MATT: You can if you'd like to, from the inside of its body, yeah, go ahead.

SAM: Is that my action? No, it's…

MATT: No, no, no, I'll let you do it because you've been very close and personal with it.

TALIESIN: You've had a lot of time to think.

SAM: Specifically what I'm trying to remember from my encounters in the past is if it has any resistance to poison damage.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: What am I doing? Intelligence?

MATT: Intelligence. Add your intelligence modifier.

SAM: 16. 16.

MATT: 16, okay. You've heard of these types of entities before. You're uncertain whether or not it has a resistance to poison, per se. You get the sensation probably, based on the fact that it uses poison, you would think so, but nothing else about its body seems to be poison-related or of the essence of poison.

SAM: But it does use poison?

MATT: As part of its tail. The stinger you saw it use earlier does seem to have some–

SAM: Oh, gotcha. Okay, so it probably does have poison resistance. Okay.

MATT: You don't know. But you do know, also, that if you were able to probably do enough damage from the inside, it would probably throw you back up. You also get the sense that since you're currently underground, now would be a bad time to do that.

SAM: Well, I'm in a tunnel, right?

MATT: As far as you know, yeah.

LAURA: There could be other worms around.

SAM: He disappeared down– well, I don't know anything! Okay, all right, I can feel him moving, so I don't know where I am anymore. So I don't want to Dimension Door out, because I don't know where I'd end up. So instead I will cast Stinking Cloud inside– No, no, no! No. No, no. Cancel! Belay that order! Shit! Because I think he's immune to poison, so I'm not going to do that. I'm going to– Fuck! There's nothing I can do!

LAURA: Can you take a healing potion in case he starts to digest you some more?

SAM: (strained) I'm like this right now. I can't do anything.

LAURA: Can you go like that, and get a healing potion and (mumbled) go like that?

SAM: I am My Left Foot. Yeah, I can't reach a wand. I don't want to get rid of–

MATT: You could Dimension Door, in theory.

SAM: But I don't know where I'd end up?

MATT: As part of the spell you can either visualize a place you can see, or one you can describe by stating distance and direction. So you've already been inside the room, you know what it looks like, so if you think you're somewhat close by–

SAM: So even if I've moved since I saw it last, I can still Dimension Door to where I think–?

MATT: In theory, yeah.

SAM: Okay, then I will do that. I will do that.

MATT: Okay. Where do you want to appear within the room?

SAM: I want to appear where Vex was before.

MATT: Okay. So, you–

LAURA: No, I was further over.

MATT: He didn't see that. Last thing he saw was you were right next to him before he got eaten. So you disappear from the inside of its stomach and appear in a puff of smoke.

SAM: Goo! Goo all over me! Ew! Oh, and then I see– I've seen the other worm before, right?

MATT: Briefly, before you were swallowed, yes.

SAM: And I get my bearings, and I can see Pike, I can see Trinket.

MARISHA: You also see me against a wall right next to you.

SAM: So I will shake it off, I will inspire Keyleth and say, (singing) I only want to see you slicing up that purple worm!

ALL: (singing) Purple worm! Purple worm!

SAM: Ooh! Okay, that's good.

MATT: d10 inspiration die to you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I love that song!

MATT: Ends your turn, Scanlan. Percy, you're up. You just caught yourself on the ground on the far end, by the tunnel.

TALIESIN: I want to hold my turn until the other worm returns.

MATT: Hold your action, you mean? So you want to move anywhere or are you going to stay where you are?

TALIESIN: Not going to move anywhere, just going to stay right there.

MATT: All right. Cool. That ends Percy's turn as he's holding his action until it returns. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot from my Blazing Bowstring at the icy worm.

MATT: That's your second and final use this day.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. 17?

MATT: 17 unfortunately misses. Your flaming arrow streaks off the darkness of the cavern and just passes it before it slams against the far cave wall.

LAURA: Balls, balls, balls! So I'm going to shoot– Nope, not going to do that. I'm going to shoot a regular old arrow at him!

MATT: Do it! Hey, those are still helpful.

LAURA: And it doesn't do anything. It goes right past him, and hits the wall, and he looks towards the wall.

MATT: An arrow isn't a very hefty thing when it's by itself hitting stonework. It makes a noise, you can barely make out, we'll see if it's enough to distract it. Are you going to stay where you are?

LAURA: Oh, I could have used my inspiration. I should have used it on the Blazing Bowstring one.

SAM: Hey man, whatever.

MATT: What are you going to do? Are you going to move? Do you want Trinket to move? Are you going to stay where you are?

LAURA: Everybody's staying!

MATT: Okay, gotcha. All right, Pike, now, seeing everyone revert, and seeing this kind of awkward situation of these creatures moving about is going to– Yeah, and– She can't see you because you're on the other side of the wall.

LAURA: Can I use my bonus action to hide?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: I do that!

MATT: I would recommend moving to one side of the cavern or the other, because right now you're still out in the open. It's kind of hard to hide if you have nowhere to hide. But you also get the feeling that these creatures– being visually hidden is not affecting it at all.

LAURA: Doesn't matter? Then I don't do anything!

MATT: All right. So you stay still. Pike stands still, figuring that it was helpful last time but feeling bad for accidentally– now seeing the mist reverting to her friends– that she blasted them on the previous round. Let's see. She didn't realized in the moment that you guys turned into mist while she was in the corner.

TRAVIS: It's all right. I've had worse.

MATT: I'm pretty sure she has another 5th-level spell, and this would be the last of them. She's going to go ahead and Flame Strike again on the frost worm. This time centering it around there, so the ten-foot radius only hits the worm and doesn't see any allies nearby. So that will be 8d6. 33 points of damage.

LAURA: Go, Pike!

MATT: Natural 20 on the save, though, so it takes half the damage.

LAURA: Damn you! Dick.

MATT: 17 points to the frost worm. All right, Pike casts that and then stays perfectly still in space, she still has some motion and some speech to it, but her feet are planted firmly on the ground. Hopefully that's enough. And that finishes her turn. Back to the top: Grog.

TRAVIS: Did you hold your action?

TALIESIN: I held my action

TRAVIS: Until when?

TALIESIN: Until the other worm returns.

TRAVIS: I'll do the same thing.

MATT: Okay. The frost worm, it's now its turn. It does not get its frost breath. However–

TALIESIN: There's a rock slide to its right.

MATT: It is! There is a rock slide. That Keyleth is standing in. Thank you for the reminder.

TALIESIN: Damn it! Sorry.

MARISHA: Thanks for that.

MATT: It's going to turn around. You can see now, its tail emerges, and it's going to arc up and try and bite and slam in your direction with both sides of its body at once. This tail does not have a stinger on it, but it is still a giant bludgeoning implement. First attack is going to be a 19 to hit?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Next one is going to be a 16 to hit.

MARISHA: No.

MATT: All right, so the tail slams on the ground next to you, estimating your position and failing and just hitting the rocks that you had slid down. However, it does bite down with its open, icy jaws. You take 17 points of piercing damage, as well as an additional six points of cold damage.

MARISHA: Bringing it to a total of 22?

MATT: 22, yeah.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MARISHA: I deserved that.

TALIESIN: We live in a cold, cold world. No one deserves anything.

MATT: Let's see if it makes any sort of perception check. Okay, cool. That ends its turn. It's now Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: So does it know that I'm there since it just took a big chunk out of me?

MATT: It senses that it impacted something and something that reacted and tasted like it had been bitten, so you get the sense that it knows you're there.

MARISHA: All right. I'm in arm's length of it, right?

MATT: You are.

MARISHA: I'm going to reach out and cast Blight on it.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: You touch me when you're trying to touch the worm. I don't know how–

MATT: Cast Blight on Taliesin! All right. Constitution saving throw. What's the DC on that?

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: 18. It does not make it. 16. So 8d8 necrotic damage to it.

SAM: Necrotic damage? Best kind.

MARISHA: Oh, jeez. What was that? Seven. Seven plus five. Seven, eight, 13, 16, and then another 12. Where was I at? 18. Oh, so 28, 32, 33 points.

MATT: 33 points of necrotic damage to the frost worm. As you reach out with your hand and grasp it, you can see now its icy white exterior all of a sudden shudders in place and you can see small cracks of black veins begin to spring out from your hands into its body. Its frozen breath all of a sudden thaws briefly into a dripping drool as it is stunned momentarily, and it pulls away, wrestling itself from your grasp. It did not enjoy that at all. So that's your action.

MARISHA: I'm going to once again not move. Can I go ahead and cast Healing Word on myself?

MATT: As a bonus action? I don't see why not.

MARISHA: Nine, total. That does help.

MATT: That ends your turn, Keyleth. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right. I want to see if I can use the haste to do double distance to get behind Pike in that little alcove. If I can't go that far, I'll use dash to get behind her.

MATT: You could. You can get behind her.

LIAM: Without the dash?

MATT: Yeah, because of your haste, you can move 60 feet.

LIAM: I'm standing right behind her and I say, Pike, I'm a little banged up. Dagger, dagger, dagger.

MATT: Okay, go for it. It is just– or no, it's within 30 feet.

LIAM: 17 for the first. 21 for the second.

MATT: Hits, hits.

LIAM: 18 for the third.

MATT: All three hit.

LAURA: Is it sneak attack because Keyleth's standing right next to it?

LIAM: All right, so first one is four. This is doubled, so that's 15 plus… 16, 21, 25, 28, 36 for the first.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Second one is nine, and the third one is ten.

TALIESIN: Damn.

MATT: All right, as your barrage of blades (spinning noises) go spinning right over Pike's head, she feels the actual wind distortion (puff) past her hair, sending strands kind of wafting in front of her face as she just stays perfectly still, trusting you. The blades all (impacts) sinking into it, one of which strikes an area of the side of its body armor where the plates on the armor had seemed to be cracked from the blackened veins from her Blight spell. As it does, the dagger doesn't even stop and plunges directly into its body, and you can see a gout of dark, deep red blood just (spurt) out from the wound. It (screeches) shakes in place from the impact, the pain, it's starting to look a little harsh.

LIAM: Done.

MATT: All right, ends your turn! That brings us to the purple worm.

LAURA: (singing) Purple worm.

LAURA & MARISHA: (singing) Purple worm.

MATT: Purple worm is going to now emerge from the impact–

MARISHA: Come on, fight the big cocksucker.

MATT: It's going to burst out from the ground where you and Pike are as the last motion that it felt was you rushing over across the ground. (boom) It comes tearing through, making its bite attack against you and its tail attack against you as well, because of Pike not moving.

LIAM: Question!

MATT: Yes?

LIAM: Pike probably doesn't, but do I have any advantage being that I'm in this little closed-in bubble?

MATT: Technically, no, because it has reach. And it just kinda swerves around the inside and it knows this cavern pretty well as it's been through here a few times. So. That's going to be a 23 to hit on you?

LIAM: Of course that hits.

MATT: For the bite attack.

SAM: Even with its disadvantage?

MATT: Oh, with the disadvantage– sorry, the second roll– thank you for reminding me there. It would have been a 13 on the second one plus nine, that would be 20.

LIAM: Still hits! Uncanny Dodge please! To halve the damage.

MATT: To halve the damage? Yeah, you can do that on this one. But first then there's the bite. I will do that now. That is 21 points of piercing damage?

LIAM: Unconscious.

MATT: With it halved?

LIAM: 21 halved?

MATT: 21 halved would put you at 11.

LIAM: Oh, yeah. Okay, no, I'm still on my feet.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (dazed mumbling)

MATT: The tail stinger's going to swing at you with disadvantage. That is 14. Rolled a six and a five. So, as the bite clamps down at you its tail tries to strike at you but misses entirely. However, its jaws attempt to close around you, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Hold on. 16.

MATT: 16. As you try and move out of the way, it's not quite fast enough as darkness takes you, the mouth (slam shut sound) clamps around you, (gulp noise) and you are swallowed.

LAURA: You didn't even get healed! (panicked gasp)

LIAM: Still conscious.

MATT: That ends its turn. Now having it appeared, as this round has happened, I would like both Grog and Percy to–

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot the purple thing with a violent shot.

MATT: How many points into it?

TALIESIN: I'm going to drop all three points into violent shot.

MATT: Okay! That adds plus six to your misfire. So you have like a 46% chance of misfiring on this shot.

TALIESIN: If I roll a six. A six or lower. It–

MATT: Well, it adds plus two to your misfire per point spent.

TALIESIN: Oh! Never mind then! Oh shit! Then never mind. Then I'm just going to take two points of violent shot. So that's–

MATT: So that would bring it to a misfire of seven.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay! So take your shot.

MARISHA: You misfire on a seven or lower?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MARISHA: Holy shit, Taliesin!

MATT: But if he hits it's two additional dice damage to it.

MARISHA: Come on, Golden Snitch!

TALIESIN: Seven.

MATT: You rolled a seven?

TALIESIN: I rolled a seven.

MATT: As you rear back, get ready to fire, all of a sudden, you pull the trigger and the way that you had customized the barrel to blast additional black powder blows up in your face and the gun actually bends out of the way and you feel the impact–

TALIESIN: Wait! I get to reroll something, don't I? Where is it? Where is it? Aw. Do I get a reroll?

Yeah. One save reroll per—

MATT: That's a saving throw reroll, that's not an attack, unfortunately. Yeah, the weapon misfires, doesn't do damage to you but the blast does not take off. You would have to repair the Bad News to use it again.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to pull out my new gun and take two shots.

MATT: Okay, so you drop Bad News, take two shots. Go for it.

TALIESIN: God damn it. (sighs)

TRAVIS: Come on, Percy!

TALIESIN: That hits! That's a 21.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to roll the other one, too. And that's a 30, that hits. So that's, plus 12. Eight, 15, 25. That's 27 points of damage.

SAM: Lot of things going on in Matt Mercer's head right now.

MATT: All right. How do you want to do this?

MARISHA: Thank god! Such an asshole.

TALIESIN: Bad News is down, I toss it to the ground, I pull out the new one. I take my shot just to get its attention to get one in the mouth.

MATT: Okay, as you take one shot (gunshot noise) it blast the side of the wall, its head turns towards you, seeing the sudden movement, and as you do you aim up, aiming for the back of its head. You fire. This time the bullet strikes true, right into the back of its throat. You can see now (explosion noise) the blowout which is a small hole in the back of its throat, you can see the cavern behind it and a little bit of light that is peeking through. It (groans) and just (impact) falls across the ground here. The Eyebite spell no longer effective but it is, currently, still there, holding the area.

LIAM: (muffled) I'm still in here.

MATT: Yep, you feel it (impact) collapse on the ground and it's not moving and the muscles go lax around you.

LAURA: That's good, so you can move a little bit.

MATT: It's now Grog's turn.

TRAVIS: I can't go get him, though, 'cause the other dick lord is still on the map.

LIAM: (muffled) I'm in acid in here.

TRAVIS: I can't get to him. I'll run up to the dead earthworm and try and cut Vax out of his stupid stomach. With Craven Edge.

MATT: As you rush up, leaping onto the body of the now-deceased purple worm, you bring the blade up and begin carving through. Go ahead and I'll say you manage to, over the course of this round, you don't have to roll for it. You just begin to tear through it with the blade repeatedly, gashing it open until eventually you can feel the blows from the outside.

TRAVIS: Did I just help midwife Vax out of this thing?

MATT: Just a moment. I would like you to go ahead and make an attack roll with disadvantage.

LAURA: An attack.

TRAVIS: 20.

LIAM: Hits!

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: I mean, I'm unconscious.

MARISHA: You're unconscious?

LAURA: Well, he will be once he takes his damage.

TRAVIS: 17.

LIAM: Unconscious–

MATT: 17, so, as you strike through you feel yourself hit something else within the purple worm, and as the wound opens up, you can see Vax's bleeding, unconscious form slip out of the purple worm's body, onto the ground of the icy cavern.

TRAVIS: Ew.

LAURA: You just killed my brother.

LIAM: I'm unconscious.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn?

TRAVIS: It was only one– it was a couple of strikes to get him out, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that ends it.

MATT: All right.

(laughter)

SAM: Killed Vax.

MATT: That was your saved attack. Now, finishing that turn, Scanlan, you are up.

SAM: Ah, me? oh. Hello, hello. (laughs) I will kill it with fire. Well, let's see, can I see Vax over there in the worm juice?

MATT: No, not from your position. As far as you know, he's still been swallowed.

SAM: Then I'll kill it with fire. I will use my Wand of Fireballs to blast balls at it.

TALIESIN: Your balls of fire wand.

SAM: My balls of fire, and I won't hit Key, will I?

MATT: Currently, if you aim it properly. It's a big radial spell.

LAURA: Oh no, it's going to get Keyleth.

SAM: Oh, it's that radius!

MATT: Yes. You could aim it in such a way–

SAM: Forget it, I'll just do Lightning Bolt instead.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: That's a huge radius.

MATT: Fireball's a powerful, dangerous spell, if things are in close quarters, but against mass amounts of enemies, it's brilliant.

SAM: So I take two steps to my right, so no one else is in the line and I will lightning it instead.

MATT: All right. Go for it, go ahead and roll damage.

SAM: 8d6, yeah?

MATT: Yep, that is an 11 on its dexterity saving throw. Full damage.

SAM: 31.

MATT: 31 points of lightning damage to it. All righty! As you step to the side, releasing the bolt of lighting energy, it blasts into the front of its face. You can see one of its jaw mandibles gets torn off from part of the impact, you can see now the deep red blood begin to pool on the side of its face and drip down as it looks over, whipping its head in your direction.

SAM: (whimpers) Do I still have any movement?

MATT: Yeah, you only moved ten feet, so you still have 15 more feet.

SAM: I'm going to try to shuffle back into the tunnel there a little bit. And for my bonus, I'll Healing Word myself.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Okay, what is that, d4? Great, yeah, six points. Awesome.

MATT: All right, that finishes Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another shot at the big icy worm.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to take two normal, everyday shots because things have been weird. It's got to be close to death now. That's 17.

MATT: 17 just barely hits.

TALIESIN: And 24.

MATT: Okay, both hit.

LAURA: Get it, Percy!

MATT: Your pistol now needs to be reloaded.

TALIESIN: Yes. Well, that's my third– Third attack is to reload. I keep track, I'm good. 21 points of damage.

MATT: Good. (gun firing twice) Both shots go off, (click) the third one kind of clicking. You go to reload, you can see both blast across the front of its body, leaving little reddish dots on its midsection as each bullet sinks into it. It's still standing, still writhing about. You can see it's bleeding from many different wounds and it's not looking too great, but it's still standing. Stay where you are or you going to–?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm staying where I am.

MATT: All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: All righty!

LAURA: And I'm going to shoot two arrows at him. Because what else am I going to do? Oh, Pike can help you.

TRAVIS: He's unconscious; don't listen to that piece of shit.

LAURA: I can't tell what happened; Grog went to save you.

LIAM: Huh? Oh, yeah.

LAURA: 29 on the first hit.

MATT: 29 hits.

LAURA: And 27 on the second hit.

MATT: Both hit.

LAURA: Okay. 20 on the first hit.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: 18 on the second hit.

MATT: Got it. Both arrows (impacts) sticking into its side, you can now see multitudes of the shafts sticking out. It's still standing. It's a hardy, hardy creature. You want to move or you want to stay where you are?

LAURA: I'm going to stay where I am.

MATT: Okay. That's all right, ends your turn. Trinket's still sitting there wanting to help, but not able to do anything. All right.

SAM: So you mean, Trinket is doing what Trinket always–

LAURA: Shut up!

(laughter)

MATT: Pike screams out, “Vax!” and runs up the body, climbs up to the top and jumps off, landing next to your unconscious self. Reaches down and is going to use her one 6th-level spell, Heal.

MARISHA: Ooh!

MATT: So you immediately regain 70 hit points.

LAURA: Whoa!

TRAVIS: It's like Pulp Fiction with the adrenaline shot.

MATT: Clerics, man! You come to consciousness, taking the deep breath– The cold air from the cavern that you inhale stings your lungs, and you look over and Pike's there before you, eyes wide. Goes from a serious frown and a worried, furrowed brow to a big smile as you come back to consciousness. “Vax!” as she goes and hugs you.

LIAM: And I clap my hand here and I leave a big, gory, slimy smear right on the half of her face. Thank you, Pike.

MATT: So you're back up, that finishes her round. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: We are still hungry! And I rush up to giant dick smear.

MATT: Leaping over– (grunt, running sounds)

TRAVIS: And I would like to use reckless attack on my first of all three great weapon master.

MATT: Okay. You can use them all. All of them are affected now.

TRAVIS: Let's do that.

MATT: All right! So, advantage on all of your attacks.

TRAVIS: That's a 23.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus. What's 29 minus five? 24.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: That probably–

LAURA: That hits, too.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I've got to do the math. 22.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Okay. 12. 20, plus ten, 30 for the first one. Eight. 13. 21, 31 for the second one.

LAURA: Grog, you've never been so hot!

TRAVIS: Three, eight, 16, 26 for the third one.

MATT: 26. How do you want to do this?

TRAVIS: I'd like to take Craven Edge and jump up, straight up, as high as I can and drive it straight into the top of its cavity and just drag it down and open it up like a beautiful bouquet.

MATT: As you see Grog staple himself to the top of this now-standing, 20-25 foot tall creature, he, using his barbarian strength to leap up on the top, sinking the blade into the back of its head. Immediately it rears back, its whole back arching. As it does so, you just use the heft of your weight, grinning as you drive the blade down the entirety of its body. As you grind down to the surface, you can see its armored back just pop open, like a freshly cooked sausage– just the insides spill out onto the ground. By the time Grog reaches the ground, you are coated in thick, thick crimson. Strangely enough, even though the blood is liquid, you feel almost like this crystalline force, like there are actually ice crystals within the blood stream itself from the cold that emanates from its body–

TRAVIS: Like Icy Hot.

MATT: Yes! And as you land and hit the ground, its body slaps forward, barely missing Keyleth as it wet hits the ground. Almost like a shrimp that had its entire back torn open. It's just in two pieces face down on the ground. Right there.

MARISHA: Good work, Grog.

TRAVIS: I want more. Who's next?

LIAM: Shh!

LAURA: Calm down, Grog! Calm your tits, Grog!

TRAVIS: Can I look in the blade and go: that was good, wasn't it?

MATT: “You did good, my friend. Very, very good.”

MARISHA: Hi, Grog.

SAM: Who you talking to, Grog?

TRAVIS: That was good, wasn't it?

MARISHA: It was very good, yeah! You did good!

TRAVIS: Well, fucking answer me next time, Jesus!

SAM: Sorry!

LIAM: I speak quietly into the earring and say: could everybody shut the fuck up, please, and can we get out of here? Quietly?

LAURA: No! There's gold! There's lots of gold on the other side!

LIAM: Yeah, let's call another two worms, let's do that.

SAM: These are probably the only ones! It's a male and a female!

MARISHA: How do you know that!?

LIAM: They fucking hated each other. They hated each other!

MARISHA: Yeah! They were trying to kill each other!

SAM: Yeah! They were married! They're a married couple! They hate each other!

MARISHA: Scanlan, that's only your relationships!

LAURA: Scanlan, you're right there. Get as much gold as you can and Dimension Door over to the teleporter.

SAM: I'm here? What?

LAURA: You're right by the gold!

SAM: Oh you mean, I'm going to get the gold?!

LAURA: Get the gold and Dimension Door!

SAM: I don't have a Bag of Holding! I weigh 14 pounds! I can't hold that much gold! Gold is heavy!

TRAVIS: I can get over there. Do we want gold?

SAM: Yes, we want fucking gold! Wait, isn't there gold all over the place?

MATT: It's like smatterings of single pieces across the floor, but this one tunnel, the hoard itself is pouring into the tunnel left behind.

LAURA: I need it!

TALIESIN: Go grab the gold, let's get the body, and we'll get out of here. We have to search the body as well.

TRAVIS: I run over to the gold. I run around the worm and run to the gold. And I (yelling) frenzied rage-loot this shit!. Just hacking away at it!

MATT: Slapping the stone and pouring all the rest of the gold you can get your hands on inside this–

SAM: I'll assist. Grog, Grog! Open the bag! (singing) Bigby's Hand will grab the gold.

(laughter)

LAURA: Yes! Oh my gosh, get so much gold!

MATT: Giant scoops into the Bag of Holding. It's just pouring off the sides of it onto the ground and you're having to scoop it back up inside.

MARISHA: I take out like my little filet knife and I start going to town on the frost worm in front of me, trying to salvage anything that I can from him.

MATT: Okay!

LAURA: I call Trinket and I tell him to get over by the teleportation circle.

MATT: Make a nature check real fast.

MARISHA: My book! I got my book!

SAM: Who, me? Nature check?

MARISHA: It's me. I got my book, which gives me advantage.

LIAM: I'm meeting Trinket, and I'm going to lay-slash-nap on his back.

MARISHA: 29.

LAURA: And I'm going to run as fast as I can over to where I can see them hoarding the gold, because I want to see it.

MATT: All right. You get over there pretty quick.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check the frozen body.

MATT: Okay. As Keyleth checks, you check the frozen body.

TALIESIN: Is that the dead man?

MATT: Oh. oh! The frozen man. Okay. Keyleth. You take a moment to cut through and there's the other undamaged mandible, the eye appears to be undamaged but those are all going to be very careful, time-intensive things to remove properly. There isn't much that can really be pulled from this other than that. There's not a whole lot of material on–

MARISHA: Can I vial any of the blood?

MATT: You can bottle some of the blood, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, I want to do that.

MATT: Okay, so you bottle some of the blood–

MARISHA: And I'm going to take that mandible if I can.

MATT: Okay, so you remove a mandible. So you can mark that down. All right, so you guys are gathering money.

TRAVIS: We don't have anything to store it in, really.

LAURA: Can I try to get some of the icy armor off of the big worm that's right next to me now?

MATT: You step up to it. I mean, most of the armor–

LAURA: I just want to pull on it and see if I can get some of it.

MATT: The parts that you pull on, that are like big hefty chunks that would be of any real use, are part of its body. The few that are busted from the damage you dealt to it throughout the combat, they're such small pieces and they crumble at your touch.

LAURA: It's okay, I'm more interested in gold anyway.

TALIESIN: Is it possible to move the frozen man, or is he just really stuck in there?

MATT: You go ahead and you grab onto him, and he's actually frozen to a coat of ice that is left in there, and looking at the ice pattern, you get the sensation that that frost worm may have frozen him in there, had seen him previously and, unable to reach him within the very back of that alcove, just frost breath-ed, this one or another like it did so.

TALIESIN: Keyleth! Can I borrow you over here?

MARISHA: Yeah. What do you want?

SAM: Are your hands dripping with blood right now?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Can you warm him up and see if we can get him out of here?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you begin to slowly–

MARISHA: We were trying to do this before. We were trying to melt his face because Pike was going to do a talk to dead spell.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: We know what happened to him now, though.

LAURA: Yeah, we've got to get out of here.

MATT: So, anything else you want to do?

MARISHA: Well, I guess we're taking the body? I'll focus my heat on his feet so we can just dislodge him and throw him over our shoulder and go.

MATT: Okay. The ice slowly begins to melt, you gather you probably have another five to ten minutes before he'll be free.

TRAVIS: That's pretty long. Too long.

LAURA: Yeah, if we feel anything, let's go, okay. Got the gold? Let's go. Let's go.

MATT: You're still gathering gold, it's going to take you a while to get all this, it's a lot of– it's a small opening–

TRAVIS: Do we leave the cave or do we use the teleportation circle?

LAURA: Teleportation circle.

MARISHA: How much time is it going to take them to get the gold?

MATT: Probably, to get all of it? Another probably 15 minutes or so.

LAURA: Jeez.

MATT: Because you have to like get in the cavern and pull out chunks, so it's a big hoard.

MARISHA: How about this, let's spend five minutes doing all this stuff and see where we're at.

LAURA: He's rolling, he's rolling!

MARISHA: Son of a bitch, we should go.

MATT: As you're having this conversation, the ground begins to quake and you can just see–

ALL: Go! Run run run!

SAM: It could be an unrelated seismic event.

LAURA: Scanlan, run!

MATT: All right, as you all rush around the corpses, heading towards the teleportation circle, you–

SAM: I smack myself with Bigby's Hand.

MATT: Giving yourself a lift as you're pushed along over the course, you guys rush over to the teleportation circle, right as you hear the ground erupt about 30 feet behind you.

LAURA: Oh, shit!

MATT: In a very similar fashion as the initial arrival of the worm, and you hear a similar shrieking sound.

LAURA: Slow-motion turn around, is it a purple one or a blue one?

MATT: It is another purple worm. A larger one. Immediate comparison? You get the idea, and as you were tearing it apart– Both of these were adolescent. They weren't fully grown.

TALIESIN: Run!

TRAVIS: Must go faster. Must go faster.

MATT: All of you guys rush onto it, one after the other, onto the teleportation sigil, the sigil carrying each of you back to your destination before the purple worm can reach you in time, you all now find yourselves standing in the room beneath the house that previously belonged to Krieg, safe, with as much gold as you could carry in the time period you had.

LAURA: Which is a good amount, I have a feeling.

MATT: We'll come back to that in a minute, but first we're going to take a little break for the restroom, guys. So we'll see you back here real fast, we'll make this a quick break, and see you soon.

TRAVIS: Five minutes. Five minutes. Don't leave.

MATT: Bye, guys.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So. Returning, as the party calms down after the harrowing encounter with a couple of worm-based entities. What would you like to do?

MARISHA: Sorry about that whole cloud mist thing, you guys. I was trying to–

LAURA: We almost died.

MARISHA: Yeah. Sorry about that. Thanks, Vex.

TRAVIS: That was you?

MARISHA: Look, it was something new, I'm still working out the kinks, all right?

LAURA: Don't do it again. Not in combat.

MARISHA: I'm working out the kinks. I'm sorry. It'll be really cool next time I try it.

LIAM: 20. Anything left? Or is it just where I, we–

MATT: Same setup where you left it, but the same pattern to escape that you recall from before.

LIAM: There were traps left still. Still the same, all right.

MATT: Still the same pattern, so you guys all, thankfully, due to Vax's viselike memory, follow the path through the tiles to avoid the traps that are set entering that room. You make your way back up the stairs to the gallery room that contained the tapestries, the domino set, the gold tea set, the skull with the gem, all those things.

TALIESIN: I say we grab the tea set and the skull and take them to Lady–

LAURA: Dr. Dra?

TALIESIN: No, actually, maybe we should have it identified first.

LAURA: Right. That would be smart. What are we going to get– are we doing– wait. Here's a question I have. Do we have to give Dr. Dra the portion of what we found down there? Because technically it's not in the house. Technically. So, whatever we find in the house is what we give him a percentage of, yes? Yes?

SAM: Technically, he's not an honorable man. But we should be.

LAURA: Right, and honorably, it is truthful to say that we didn't find it in the house. Technically, it's across the fucking world.

TRAVIS: That's true. Give him a bit of the tea set, we give him the dominoes–

LAURA: They tried to steal our money, Scanlan, and you're letting them have free rein in our house right now.

SAM: It's their nature.

MARISHA: I'm still really confused as to why we came back here to begin with.

SAM: We were checking it out to see if it was safe.

MARISHA: Right, well, that's been confirmed, it's not.

LAURA: Right? We found the owner of the house, and he's been frozen.

SAM: Should we report this to the officials and try to quarantine the house, destroy it, something?

TALIESIN: I think that would be wise.

MARISHA: Quarantine the house?

SAM: Just destroy the portal, destroy the teleportation circle.

TALIESIN: Certainly can't have anyone else moving in here.

LAURA: We should take it for ourselves. Just to keep it safe.

SAM: Take the gold, or the house?

TRAVIS and LAURA: The house.

LAURA: We should let Emperor Uriel know that we should take control of this house because it contains very powerful secrets.

TALIESIN: We should find out what that skull does.

SAM: What does Pike think about that?

MATT: Pike? Hearing this conversation and still glad that everyone survived this end of this whole circumstance, goes: “Well–”

(laughter)

MATT: “I mean, we should let Uriel know.”

TALIESIN: I can't look at him.

MATT: “But we also made a deal. And we're people of our word.”

LAURA: Yes, Pike, we made a deal for anything we found in the house.

SAM: Don't condescend to Pike.

LAURA: I'm not condescending Pike, I am rationalizing this agreement.

MARISHA: I'm still really confused as to why we are trying to maintain honor to inhonorable people.

SAM: Because we're better than that.

LAURA: I'm going to tell him you said that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, why do we care if they have money?

SAM: Let's count our money first before we make that decision. But I'm mainly concerned what Pike feels about taking control of this evil, evil house.

LAURA: It's not evil, evil. It's not an evil house.

SAM: It's got an evil, mysterious gem-eye looking at us right now.

LAURA: Well, exactly, it's got secrets. We have a house that has powerful secrets in it, that people shouldn't be in. I'm saying we should claim it so that we can keep other people from falling victim.

SAM: All right. If in claiming it we can get someone, some sort of religious person in here to clear it for us, making sure that it's– Pike would be an option.

MARISHA: How is this going to sound to Uriel? Excuse me, Uriel, just want to let you know that we broke into General Krieg's old house and found out it's really dangerous. Can we have it?

LAURA: No, we just say– Keyleth, really?

MARISHA: Well, I'm just saying, how do we phrase this?

LAURA: You think that's how you would phrase it? You'd say: we heard rumor that the owner of the house had gone missing. We went to investigate and discovered very powerful, dangerous secrets within. We know where he is. He's frozen on the other side of a portal. We need to make sure nobody else falls victim to it. So we close off the house and we say we'll keep it safe. For the time being.

MARISHA: And what happens when he asks why we were there in the first place?

LAURA: We tell him we heard that somebody went missing and we were investigating where he went.

TRAVIS: That makes sense to me.

LIAM: We've probably earned a bit of trust at this point.

LAURA: What, we have to go through his guard? No. We're part of the council.

MARISHA: I don't know

LAURA: I think it's a very fair– Percy?

TALIESIN: I would agree. I don't think it's necessary for us to claim ownership for it. We just need to have it cordoned off and make sure no one else, other than us, can come in.

LAURA: Exactly. I'm not saying it's ours. I'm saying we just make sure no else comes in.

SAM: We're leasing with an option to buy.

TRAVIS: Is the skull with the gem in there still?

MATT: It's still turned away, and I believe you put a tapestry over it.

LAURA: Yes, we did.

TALIESIN: Let's bundle it up in the tapestry.

LIAM: That thing is trouble, though, that thing is trouble

TALIESIN: Well, let's take it to somebody who–

SAM: Take the skull?

TALIESIN: I think we should take the skull and show it to someone who might know what it is.

TRAVIS: All right, I go over and grab the tapestry and the skull, hold it like a knapsack.

MATT: Okay, make– no this is fine, it's relatively light.

TRAVIS: Can you hear me?

TALIESIN: Yes, Grog, we can hear you.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Right, good, maybe–

SAM: Oh shit, the whispers. If you haven't read the comics, check it out on geekandsundry.com.

TALIESIN: And while you're there, spend some money at Gilmore's Glorious Goods. Gilmore's, where all of your magical items can be procured. With a smile a week.

LAURA: (laughing) That was the lamest slogan ever.

MARISHA: All of your items can be purchased.

TALIESIN: I'm exhausted.

TRAVIS: Shut the fuck up! Wait, wait, wait. Last part, last part, last part.

SAM: And don't forget!

TALIESIN: Don't forget?

SAM: If someone's whispering in your ear, it's probably the sound of your conscience saying: “Go buy a T-shirt!”

TRAVIS: I take off running out of the house.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation, Grog just bolts out of the house. Just runs up the stairs, out through the foyer, and is–

LAURA and TALIESIN: Grog!

LIAM: I start running after him, and I'm hasted.

MARISHA: Oh, it's reverse whispering!

TALIESIN: It's the reverse whisper!

SAM: Guys, this is the rest of the show.

TALIESIN: They're not talking, there's just tongues in ears.

LAURA: (laughs) Lalalala.

MARISHA: Wet willie.

LIAM: I'm running out stealthing, after him.

LAURA: I stop and I get the golden tea set. And I take off after him.

TRAVIS: (yelling) Guys, you've got to come out of the house, now!

TALIESIN: Okay, we're running out of the house.

TRAVIS: We've got to get out of the house. Now!

TALIESIN: We're running out of the house.

MARISHA: Okay, okay. We're running out of the house. Christ.

TALIESIN: I'm following him out of the house, so.

MATT: Right. You all rush out. You're now out of the foyer. You burst out the front of the home itself. You're in the front yard at this point in time, in the slightly dead grass.

TALIESIN: It's going to go Poltergeist on us, isn't it?

MARISHA: The house just collapses.

MATT: The sun's still high in the sky, late afternoon at this point.

LAURA: What the fuck was that about?

TRAVIS: The house and the skull are linked. As long as the house stands, his evil will grow.

SAM: Whose evil?

TRAVIS: It didn't say. The house has to be taken down to the ground. The portal must be destroyed.

LIAM: Says who? Who's in there?

TRAVIS: (loud and angry) I just heard this fucking– (calmer, hesitating) I. Have… premonitions at times, it runs in my family.

MARISHA: Since when, Grog?

TRAVIS: You know, when I'm drinking ale, this voice goes like: “Stop!” But I'm like: “No.” And I keep going. And sure enough, I should've stopped.

MARISHA: But you haven't been drinking today.

SAM: That voice is usually me.

TRAVIS: Are you saying anything?

MATT: Grog. Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: I'm going to say, over the course of everyone listening, Grog hasn't been really fancy with wordplay or deception. He's a very blunt, upfront person, and it's very awkward to see a childlike mind attempt to convey a fictional story like the one he's been pretending.

LAURA: So, you're lying.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: You're lying, Grog.

TRAVIS: What? Why do you say that?

TALIESIN: Because you're really bad at it. And it's hilarious.

TRAVIS: Reverse psychology. I'm really bad at it.

LAURA: Yes, you are.

TRAVIS: That didn't work.

TALIESIN: No, it didn't.

LIAM: I want to walk right up to Grog. Right up to his nipples, because that's as high as I go.

SAM: Kiss him on the mouth.

(laughter)

LIAM: That's two episodes from today. Will you come down here, please? Big Man? Couple of things. First, and this is a smaller detail, I shaved half your beard, correct? It's correct. You've cut me open at least twice, right now. Pike, come here.

MATT: Pike walks up. “Yeah?”

LIAM: I would say that makes you and I even. You've been acting all kinds of fucked-up for a while now, and I know you don't want to disappoint her, your best friend. Something's going on with you, and it's time to talk about it. You're talking to yourself, you're talking to your own asshole. You're talking to that fucking sword, you're talking to trinkets we're picking up in houses. What is going on?

TRAVIS: Talking to the sword?

LIAM: And she's listening. And she knows when you're lying, and she knows when you're telling the truth.

TRAVIS: Pike?

MATT: She does give you this concerned look that only a possibly disappointed friend can give you, like, “I am worried about you, Grog.”

TRAVIS: Honestly, I'm hurt. I'm offended. And we are not fucking equal. If you want to get equal, we can step out here, and handle business like men.

MARISHA: Who all is around to see this?

TRAVIS: I've cut you open twice. Twice.

LIAM: I walk away. I walk off. I leave the fucking house.

LAURA: We're already out of the house.

MATT: So as you guys are standing in front of the house, Vax just steps out into the center of the Cloudtop District, in the direction towards the exit.

LIAM: Gone. Stealthed. Laters.

TRAVIS: Pike, can I talk to you for a second?

MATT: “Yeah. Grog, anything.”

TRAVIS: (scoffs) Talking to my sword. The skull has a voice.

MATT: “What do you mean?”

TRAVIS: Yeah. I picked it up, right, because I was just going to carry it out, and it said, like: “I can grant you a wish. Any wish that you want.”

MATT: “We've been told something similar before, and that didn't go too well. Put the skull down, please.”

TRAVIS: Yeah. But it's a wish. We can wish for anything.

MATT: “Grog, please, trust me? Put the skull down.”

TRAVIS: I don't want to put it down.

MATT: “I know. Do you trust me?”

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: “Put the skull down, Grog.”

TRAVIS: I drop the skull.

MATT: Okay. The tapestry clatters to the ground and opens up, and the skull rolls for a second and stops on its side. You can see now, the golden skull is just resting there. The gem still with the intricate filigree, buried within the eye socket. Pike turns to the rest of you and calls you over. “We don't know what this is. And dangerous magics are drawn to imagery like this. Let us see what this is about, first.”

MARISHA: Pike, can you discern what kind of entity this might be attached to?

MATT: “I had a feeling before.” And she pulls out her healing symbol and casts Detect Good or Evil again in the direction of the skull. You can see she recoils the moment that she concentrates. “The aura is definitely evil from this object.”

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Maybe it was lying to you.

SAM: What?

TRAVIS: Lying? I hadn't thought of that.

MARISHA: Is that all you have, Pike? That's all you can find out?

MATT: “You have to take it to somebody who knows it or spend some time with it, perhaps.”

LAURA: How about this, how about nobody ask the skull any more questions?

MARISHA: Yeah, no one touch the– Is it just laying on the floor right now?

MATT: Just laying right there, off to the side.

SAM: Put it in the Bag of Holding?

LAURA and MARISHA: No.

LAURA: I don't like evil things in the Bag of Holding. We have lots of weird things in there, I don't know how it'll react.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pull out my sword and pick it up by the eye socket.

MATT: The empty one? Okay. You lift it up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to carry it on a stick.

LAURA: Should we put a cloth over it?

SAM: Yeah, that might look a little weird.

TALIESIN: It's going to look weird with a cloth over it, but please, go ahead.

MATT: Okay. Vex, as you approach it and go to throw the cloth over it, you get a brief view of the gem that's in the socket. And where there was a slight shimmer to its surface when it was looking to before, you can now see briefly what looks like some sort of a ghostly face appears across the surface for a second and then fades.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MATT: You throw it over it.

LAURA: That thing's alive. That is definitely alive.

TRAVIS: What, the skull?

LAURA: No, no, no. There's definitely something in that stone. It looked at me.

SAM: Well, that's creepy. Can we take it to someone; who do we know? Not Gilmore, this is beyond–

LAURA: Allura? She's not here, she's–

MATT: Allura's in Whitestone right now.

SAM: If only we had some way to magically transport to Whitestone.

TALIESIN: We do actually have a way of magically transporting to Whitestone.

SAM: Yes. We do. Could you go?

LAURA: Oh. Just one of us though.

SAM: Yes, you.

LAURA: Can you transport items with it?

TALIESIN: As long as they're on you, as long as you're holding them.

MARISHA: But Percy, to be fair, you've had a bit of a weakness with, you know, evil entities being attached to you.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Besides, if it grants a wish. I get the fucking wish.

LAURA: You get the wish, Grog, you sure get the wish.

MARISHA: No, it's not going to– It's not granting anyone's wish.

SAM: We could send Pike with it?

MARISHA: I mean, if want to sleep a day, we can all just bamf back. We can tree stride back to Whitestone, if we want to take a nap.

LAURA: That's true.

SAM: Wait, we're going to sleep with this skull in our house?

MARISHA: Well, I've already spent my one 6th-level spell turning us into fucking clouds.

SAM: You didn't turn me into a cloud.

LAURA: Or me.

MARISHA: Yeah. Honestly, if I would've turned everyone into a cloud–

TALIESIN: We'll keep it locked in my workshop for now. We can make it a night. And we will make sure that they know we have to deal with the house.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Who has to deal with the house?

LAURA: I'm going to go speak to Uriel and see if I can tell him what just happened.

SAM: You by yourself?

LAURA: You can all come with me.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: I'll actually– I've got a great idea.

SAM: Oh. We'll leave the skull with Uriel.

TALIESIN: I'll take the skull to Whitestone, and I'll see you in the morning.

LAURA: No.

SAM: After you've been corrupted by it?

LAURA: How about we all go together to Whitestone?

TALIESIN: I was just thinking it'll be a way of getting the skull out of the house tonight.

LAURA: Yeah, but then it'll be in Whitestone.

SAM: We'll leave the skull in this house–

TALIESIN: That's a very fair point. We're not leaving– I don't think that's a good idea.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: What, hang on, Grog. You were–

LAURA: Why did you run the skull out of the house?

MARISHA: Yes. Exactly.

TRAVIS: I told you. The house is evil. The portal has to be crushed.

SAM: Wait, that part's true?

MARISHA: The portal has to be crushed?

TRAVIS: It's an evil portal. Yeah.

SAM: Who told you that?

TRAVIS: The skull did.

SAM: Oh, in addition to the wish? Oh.

LAURA: I don't know. Maybe the skull was trapped in the house. Maybe it wanted to get out of the house.

SAM: It's like a genie.

TRAVIS: Don't look at me. I'm just the translator.

SAM: Oh, this is weird. We need some help on this.

MARISHA: Why was it talking through you, Grog? Why not Pike?

TALIESIN: I think we'll get answers from Allura.

MARISHA: If you can ask it questions, maybe we could ask it a few more questions?

TRAVIS: I'm okay with that.

SAM: No. It will hypnotize us and corrupt us.

TRAVIS: It's in a knapsack.

LAURA: I think we should hide it and then open it up when we're in front of Allura.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: Right now, it's mid-afternoon. Two, three o'clock in the afternoon.

TALIESIN: Let's let Uriel know what's happened.

SAM: We'll go on a quick pub crawl.

TALIESIN: I've got to get home and work on a few things, anyway. I've got a broken gun.

MARISHA: I guess I'll go with Percy and take the skull, and I'll make sure we put it somewhere safe in the keep, if you guys want to go talk to Uriel.

LAURA: Pike? Grog? What do you guys want to do?

TRAVIS: What do we want to do, Pike?

MATT: “I don't know. We wanted to go talk to Uriel.”

MARISHA: Do you want to come with us, Pike? Do you want to be with the skull, Pike, or do you want to go talk to Uriel?

MATT: “I should walk with you with the skull.”

TALIESIN: Yes, I think that would be best.

SAM: Before we all part ways, can we do a quick accounting of the gold?

LAURA: We can't just count it right here.

TALIESIN: We'll count it back when we're–

LAURA: Away from your friends, but back at the keep.

SAM: All right. Fair enough.

MATT: Okay. So, as you guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep with the skull, keeping it properly covered so you're not walking through the city with a giant gold skull at the end of a sword. You head towards the palace. You make your way through the front to the outer doors. The throne room is currently closed, and there is heavy guard up, and upon you approaching, “I'm sorry. Do you have business with Uriel?”

LAURA: Not at the moment.

MATT: “All right.”

LAURA: But we will, once you tell him that we're here.

MATT: “All right. Hold on.” He steps inside. The doors close. About two minutes pass. The guard comes back out. “I'm terribly sorry. Uriel currently is in a very heated discussion and cannot take guests at the moment. Would you like me to relay a message?”

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Yes, but we would like to write it down first.

SAM: Actually, while you were gone– And I cast Friends on him. While you were gone, other guards came by and said we were clear to go in.

MATT: You can go ahead and make a deception check with advantage.

SAM: Natural 20.

MATT: He goes, “Other guards? Uriel himself just told me I can't let anyone inside.”

LAURA: Oh, they must have seen him right after you saw him.

MATT: “All right, fine.” And he opens the door. You guys walk in, and there you see the entirety of the rest of the Council of Tal'Dorei. You see Tofur Brotorus, you see Seeker Asum, you see– what the hell is his name? The other guy. Arbiter Brom. They're all gathered in this discussion. Uriel looks up immediately and says, “I'm sorry, we're not taking any–”

LAURA: We heard there was a council meeting.

MATT: “Technically, no, but yes, what is your business?”

LAURA: We're here because there's a council thing?

SAM: We're here to report a security concern of the utmost importance and urgency to you.

MATT: There's a long, internalized sigh. Not out of frustration, just more out of being lost in thought and a little sad. He goes, “All right. Very well.”

LAURA: Is everything all right, Uriel?

MATT: “Everything's fine. What would you like to bring to the council?”

SAM: Are we among friends here and free to talk in front of everyone?

MATT: He looks around. “These are my trusted advisors and my trusted palace guard. Yes.”

SAM: We've been alerted to some evil afoot in your kingdom yet again. The former Krieg's homestead has been vacant for a while and apparently has a portal to an evil realm inside. We went to investigate, acting on a tip from–

LAURA: An old friend.

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: And discovered that it was, in fact, true. The owner that was missing has been killed.

MATT: “So, Krieg's estate, which was sold off after his disappearance over a year ago, you're telling me contains some sort of evil portal.”

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: “Was this built by the new owner?”

LAURA: No, I believe it was built by Krieg.

MATT: “Built by Krieg? How are you certain of this?”

SAM: Our informant told us as much. We don't want to give his name.

LAURA: It seems rather old, this portal.

MATT: “Where is Krieg now?”

LAURA: I have no idea.

MATT: “All right. Well, we'll send a security force to keep a very close eye on the house while it is investigated.”

SAM: It's extremely magically dangerous. They should not set foot inside the place at all.

LAURA: Incredibly dangerous. It might be best if we investigate it ourselves.

MATT: “All right, if you'd like. I was going to wait until Allura returned and I was going to assign her to it, but if you feel confident, then I will leave the investigation in your hands.”

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: Will you notify us when she returns?

MATT: “I will.”

SAM: Is there anything else?

LAURA: No. You all look quite lovely today, and we will leave you to your business.

MATT: Asum chuckles a little bit. The rest of them acknowledge, Tofor gives a nod, and Uriel closes his eyes for a second and rubs his temple and goes, “I appreciate the information. If you please, we have matters to discuss.”

SAM: Just real quick before we leave. I'm sorry. I think I had a burrito. Can I just use a facility inside? A restroom or something?

MATT: “Certainly.”

SAM: Thank you.

LAURA: I'll wait for him.

SAM: Just wait out of earshot.

LAURA: Far away.

MATT: “Thank you.” They wait as you guys leave the chambers. The guards close the doors, and you're welcome to go. There are a number of various WCs, water closets, throughout the palace.

LAURA: They closed the doors?

SAM: They closed the doors?

MATT: They're not going to let you crap in the middle of the throne room!

LAURA: No, but I thought I could wait in the back of the throne room, out of earshot.

MATT: The guards are pushing you out of the throne room. This is a very private meeting.

LAURA: Excuse me, handsy. I'm leaving.

MATT: “Sorry, Miss. Orders of Uriel.” They push you out and close the doors.

SAM: I've been in the throne room before?

MATT: You have been, yes.

SAM: Do you have eyes on them?

LAURA: No, they fucking shut me out.

SAM: All right. Give me ten minutes.

LIAM: Do you need a scroll?

SAM: I sit down on the WC.

MATT: Do you take your potion?

SAM: No, I don't. Instead, I Polymorph into a fly, and I'm going to fly my way to the throne room.

MATT: Okay. All right. You fly through, over to the doors. The front doors?

SAM: Of the throne room?

MATT: How are you getting into the throne room?

SAM: The doors are closed, yes?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Is there any gap at all?

MATT: There is a slight gap on the bottom.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to crawl in there.

MATT: As you come by, one of the guards swings at you. You dodge out of the way without issue and make your way underneath the doors and raise your flight pattern.

LAURA: I start chatting up the guards on the outside of the door to distract them a little bit.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Dexterity? Oh, no, someone's got a fly swatter! Ten?

MATT: Okay. As you cruise in for a moment, you can see the throne room itself, in its round pattern, has designs carved into the walls, almost like Celtic knots. There are a number of these designs right towards the sides of each entrance that previously just looked like a design, but they emit a dull glow for a second, and a burst of arcane energy comes out from them. You find your form immediately unfurl into that of Scanlan the gnome, which then plops back onto the ground, your Polymorph spell dispelled. All of a sudden, the talk stops and the entire council turns back towards the entrance as you're catching yourself on the ground.

LIAM: Surprise!

SAM: That one's full. The one that I tried to go into? It's full and it needs a big cleaning.

MATT: “Good to know, Scanlan.”

SAM: I thought there was another one this way.

MATT: “There isn't, Scanlan.”

SAM: Not through there, or anything? All right. Carry on, then. You should send someone up to service it, though, right away.

MATT: He looks over to Tofor, and Tofor goes–

SAM: It's a matter of security.

MATT: “We'll have it done. Thank you, Scanlan. Now, please.”

SAM: Okay. Two lefts and a right, and I'm out? Thank you.

LIAM: Matt's got to be using Botox, because he didn't move!

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, you gather, due to recent events, that the magical defenses have been reinstated, with the current circumstances. The doors open again, and Vex, as you turn, you see Scanlan being led out of the doors.

LAURA: Scanlan, what are you doing here?

SAM: Shat all over my plans. Let's go home, I guess.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep. Vax is there, waiting.

LIAM: No, I'm not.

MATT: Oh, you didn't go back to the keep?

LIAM: Nope.

LAURA: I tell some guards on the way out just to block off that house and not let anybody in it. Don't go inside, on your life.

MATT: “Noted. The order just came through. Don't worry. We're gathering a troop specifically for this. Don't worry.”

LAURA: Not a lot of troops. Just a couple of dudes is good.

MATT: “Very well.”

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: As you're leaving, you can see there are a few armed individuals, four, approximately, that are moving towards the house to stand guard and inspect the exterior, at the very least. You return to Greyskull Keep. You guys get there, as well. Grog, you return on your own, essentially, at this point, unless you're walking with them with the skull. Vax is nowhere to be found. You do find that Dr. Dranzel, that whole team is gone, except for Zed.

SAM: The drummer?

MATT: Yes. Zed is currently having a little bit of ale in the dining room area, along with Jarett, who was assigned to watch over while they're at the keep. As you step inside, they all notice. Jarett, still with his crossbow loaded in his lap, though he's happy and jovial and conversational with Zed. “Ah, you've returned. Good to see all of you in good health. The rest have left into the city.”

SAM: Did they say why? For a performance?

MATT: Zed leans forward and goes, “Actually, it appears that Kaylie got in some sort of a serious bar tussle last night and is currently being held in the stocks. The stockade. I get those words confused. Stockade.” He takes a sip of his ale. The rest of the troupe's going to see if they can get her out.”

SAM: All right, good to know. Thanks, Zed.

LAURA: Jarett?

MATT: “Yes?”

LAURA: Any issues while we were gone?

MATT: “No issues, actually. They were good conversationalists. They were very aware of my disposition, and I kept a very close eye on any movement, preventing them from leaving the room unless they were as a group, except for their exit, in which Zed escorted me. There have been no problems.”

LAURA: Good man. I pat him on the shoulder.

TRAVIS: She's in the stockade. Only problem is getting caught. I like her style. Should we get her out?

SAM: I'd like to, very much, but I don't know how. We can't just barge in there and break someone out of jail. We're known people.

LAURA: Don't you have your sheriff badge?

LIAM: (laughs) Well-remembered.

TRAVIS: Yeah, can't we post a bond or something?

SAM: It's customs, not sheriff.

LAURA: Call the council.

MARISHA: Well, it sounds like they've already– they're sending other people to get her out. What's the big deal?

SAM: Yeah, but they could make the problem worse.

LAURA: Those guys? They'll make it worse.

SAM: She's quite special to me. I think we should– I think I should go and try to get her out.

MARISHA: Oh, she's 'quite special' to you, yeah?

TRAVIS: There's one place I haven't done it, and it's in a prison.

SAM: Not, not in that way.

(laughter)

SAM: That's creepy. No, not in that way.

MARISHA: Why is that creepy?

SAM: I'm not interested in her in that way.

MARISHA: But you were courting her two days ago.

SAM: Things have changed.

MARISHA: I thought she spent the night in your room.

SAM: She's a good person and she deserves much better than the likes of me–

TALIESIN: That's never stopped you before.

LAURA: Don't say that, Scanlan. You've got a cube!

MARISHA: That's true.

SAM: It's a rather large cube, but, listen, all right, she's– she's– we're related. We're related.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: And I don't just mean–

MARISHA: Wait, what?

SAM: She's a Shorthalt.

TRAVIS: Like a cousin?

LAURA: Like a sister?

MARISHA: Like an aunt?

TALIESIN: Like a mother?

SAM: Like a baby. Like a baby Shorthalt.

TRAVIS: Whose baby?

SAM: (high-pitched 'hee' sound)

TRAVIS: 'He'?

(laughter)

SAM: Listen, don't spread the word around. I don't want my cred to be ruined, but… she's my little girl.

LAURA: You dog!

TRAVIS: You're a baby daddy?

SAM: I didn't know this, this is new information. I'm still just adjusting to it.

TRAVIS: Holy shit!

MARISHA: You tried to sleep with your baby daddy?

SAM: No I didn't.

TRAVIS: Did you lock that up that night?

SAM: No, I did not! I did not try and sleep with her. I think deep down inside, some part of me knew, which is why I gave her all that gold. I think.

TRAVIS: You paid her for it?

SAM: No! Oh, Grog, please!

(laughter)

SAM: I may deserve that but no, no. It's not like that at all.

LAURA: Then you didn't know. There's no part of you that knew you had any children.

SAM: I mean, I always knew that was a possibility, in the trade I deal in.

MATT: At this point Zed breaks in and goes, (chuckles) “Indeed!”

SAM: All right. Easy. Listen, drummer–

MATT: “It's Zed.”

SAM: You can be replaced easily. When I played with them, we had seven drummers in two years. And I killed two of them.

(laughter)

MATT: He sets his drink down and pushes it away. “Should I go?”

SAM: No, just stay and shut up.

TRAVIS: I'll take that, though. I take his drink.

MARISHA: Oh, wow. Well, that's–

SAM: Yes, I don't quite know how to act or behave now. And I'm going through a crisis of conscience and identity. I'm sorry; I'm off my game right now. But she's related to me.

LAURA: Just make sure that she knows that you love her. And make sure that she knows that you're there for her.

MARISHA: Why do you keep saying she's 'related to' you? Why don't you just call her exactly what she is? Which is your daughter.

SAM: I don't know. Okay, all right.

MARISHA: That's weird to be like, 'my child is related to me.'

SAM: I'm not good with this stuff. I haven't done this before, all right? I haven't really had family for much of my life. And this is a new thing and it's going to take me some time to adjust and figure out what this means for me. All right? I've defined most of my life by the people I've slept with and now, this a new part of me that I have to figure out.

LAURA: Well, technically, it's still defined by–

TALIESIN: I was just thinking that. It's a redefinition.

LAURA: You could make a really good move of it by helping her get out of the stockade.

SAM: I would like to. But I'll need some help, probably. I don't know if we can all go barge in there.

LAURA: Trinket.

MATT: (bear grunts)

LAURA: Scanlan needs help

MATT: Trinket lumbers over to you and (slurp). Licks the side of your face. (bear groan) Leans into you. Nearly pushing you off your feet from the sheer mass.

SAM: (laughs) Thanks, Vex. Trinket, I'm okay for right now. But maybe you can help best by staying here and looking after the drummer here and making sure.

MATT: (growls) Just growls at Zed, who stands up. “I'm just here to make sure that we continue our deal when they return. I'm not– I don't– I just play the drums.”

LAURA: You do a good job of it. Keep drinking that ale.

TRAVIS: I give it back.

MATT: “I–” Takes the empty and goes and refills it from a nearby cask.

SAM: I know it's late in the day, but I wouldn't mind going right away. Does anyone want to join me?

TRAVIS: Do you want all of us? Or a smaller party?

SAM: Probably just a smaller party. Don't we have business to attend to here? Gold to count and–

LAURA: I can stay and count.

TRAVIS: I can stay with her.

MARISHA: Who do you want to take? You pick your dodgeball team.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Ooh, I like it.

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: Well to get out of a stockade, we'll need some cunning. And cunning– And cunning.

TRAVIS: Go ahead and ask.

SAM: I wish Vax were here.

TRAVIS: Don't we have earrings?

SAM: You know what, we are but they have a range.

LAURA: They do have a range.

SAM: Come in, Vax. Earth to Vax. Tune in Tokyo.

MATT: Approximately where are you right now?

MARISHA: So many secrets!

MATT: I love the whispers!

SAM: He's gone to Whitestone!

MATT: All right, there is no response. He really is out of range.

SAM: Percy, I need you for your words, and Keyleth for your magic. Let's go.

MARISHA: All right.

LAURA: We're useless.

MARISHA: Can I heal myself up first?

SAM: Sure, if you've got a little left for me. Wait, I can give us–

MARISHA: Oh wait, Pike! Will you hook us up?

MATT: “Yeah,” And she goes over and–

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and do a quick repair to my gun, also.

MATT: Okay, go for it. She throws down a couple of Cure Light Wounds. She's going to do 3rd level to each of you.

MARISHA: Dope.

MATT: Of Cure Wounds. This'll be 3d8 plus five to each of you. So 23 to you, and 21 to you, Scanlan. She'll do a third one to you, Keyleth. Because you're looking pretty rough, right Keyleth?

MARISHA: Huh?

MATT: You're looking pretty rough?

MARISHA: I'm at 65 now, with that. So I'm still 30 under.

MATT: So on top of that you get another 13. Pike's going to stay with you guys.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: All right, so. While you guys count the gold and what you managed to gather, you find in the–

LAURA: Out of sight of Zed! Just so you know.

MATT: Not a worry. You manage to pull from the hoard entirely, out of gold, silver, copper, platinum, the equivalent of 4,150 gold pieces.

TRAVIS: Wow.

LIAM: There was another 20 or 30g there.

LAURA: I know, right?

LIAM: Probably.

SAM: We can go back.

MARISHA: How much? 4,000?

MATT: 4,150 gold.

TRAVIS: You don't want to go back in there.

MATT: About 1,050 gold worth of gems.

LAURA: 1,050.

MATT: Yep, in gems. Mark that. And about 750 gold approximately of art items, knick knacks, things that you would have to find a specific seller to really get the money for them.

LAURA: (singing) Knick knacks.

SAM: Tchotchkes.

MATT: Yeah, like small jade statues, bits of jewelry…

LAURA: And how much in platinum?

MATT: Well, the gold equivalent of platinum is what it would be. The total amount is 4,000. But nice try. All right, so. You guys make your way– After asking around a bit, you figure the closest stockade is the Promenade stockade.

SAM: Oh, there's multiple stockades.

MATT: There are. But that's the one that's closest to the keep and the first place you should start. So you make your way towards the Promenade stockade. It's a fairly grim-looking grey stone building on the outskirts of Abdar's Promenade, which is a very, very, bombastic, colorful gathering of tents and buildings and various shopkeeps. As you walk to the outside of it, approaching, you can see immediately, there on the steps, is most of Dr. Dranzel's troupe, just sitting on the outside steps with two guards at the door. And they're all talking amongst themselves, waiting outside. Dr. Dranzel is not amongst them. As you begin to step closer–

SAM: He got nabbed, too, didn't he?

MATT: (laughs) As you step closer, you can see they wave you down, and they recognize you and approach you with an excited look on their face as if they now have some sort of backup.

MARISHA: I'm going to whisper to Scanlan. I'm going to say, I'm going to stay back. You go ahead.

SAM: All right, thanks.

MATT: So Kent Plucker approaches you as you approach and goes like, “Scanlan. Good thing you're here. I think we may need your silvered tongue to go ahead and help us out in this endeavor. Dr. Dranzel's inside; he's been arguing with the warden for quite some time. We're trying to get Kaylie out.”

SAM: What happened? Why is she in jail?

MATT: “She got in a bit of a bar fight last night, it seems. Messed up quite a few gentlemen and all of them are arrested and being held inside. They're wanting a bit of change to do the damages and pay for the fine of whatever else she's done. And, well, we're not keen on really paying fines, so we're trying to see how much we can get out of this with our–”

SAM: What's the fine?

MATT: “I don't know. We didn't go in as a full group. The guards wouldn't let us.”

SAM: Was she injured in any way?

MATT: “I haven't seen her. You'll have to go inside to find out.”

SAM: All right. Thank you. You won't be needed here anymore. You guys can leave.

MATT: They all look at each other. “If it's fine by you, we're going to wait for Dr. Dranzel.”

SAM: Oh yes, all right. Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

SAM: What do you think our play is here?

TALIESIN: Well–

SAM: Should we go in and pay? Should we do a bit of a ruse? You still have your Hat of Disguise, right?

TALIESIN: Yes, but I think I'm more useful as myself, rather than anybody else.

SAM: Well, you could be a guard taking me in there.

TALIESIN: I think on a certain level, you're possibly making this more complicated than it needs to be.

SAM: Yeah, but it's fun, though? No, no, you're right, we should just go in and talk.

TALIESIN: You forget you have clout. Part of the point of clout is that you spend it. You spend your clout.

SAM: Oh, all right.

TALIESIN: I know you're not used to actually having the means by which to just simply get what you want by asking for it. But you could just… ask for it.

MARISHA: That was the most privileged thing you've ever said.

TALIESIN: That's the most privileged thing I've ever said that you've heard.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Touché.

LIAM: Marisha has a high clout score.

SAM: So you think just walk on in there. No subterfuge, no sneaky-sneaky, no breaking down doors?

TALIESIN: Well, a little subterfuge. Let me–

MARISHA: I've got Polymorph. I can always be a tiny thing in your pocket.

SAM: Who said that?

MARISHA: Sorry, I'm back here. I figured Percy and I were waiting back here.

SAM: Oh, okay, hi.

TALIESIN: Let me attempt to see if I can defuse this relatively easily. I will need some gold.

SAM: Are you lying to me to get me to pay you for a new gun?

TALIESIN: No, but that's a very good point. So later I will be asking for some gold to help me fix my new gun.

SAM: All right, I'll give you what you need.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: Do you have gold, Scanlan?

SAM: I do.

TALIESIN: Okay, we may have to have a discussion. At the very least I'm going to need 20 gold, at the very least.

SAM: 20?

TALIESIN: 20 gold, at the very least.

SAM: You don't have 20 gold?

TALIESIN: Oh, I do. Just not for your daughter.

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

(laughter)

SAM: Take 50.

TALIESIN: That will do.

MATT: So you guys approach?

MARISHA: No trips to Coldstone with Percy. You are not the Godfather.

TALIESIN: I will take you to White Castle, though.

MATT: You come to the front steps of the stockade, there are two guards there, with tower shields and what looks like halberds to each of them. One of them steps forward, putting his shield out. Not in an aggressive way, but definitely in an attention-gathering way. “Do you have business here in the stockade?”

TALIESIN: I do; I wish to speak to the warden.

MATT: “The warden is indisposed in conversation at the moment.”

TALIESIN: Well, he will agree to be indisposed in conversation with me. I'm Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III. And I'm here on the business of Whitestone.

SAM: He's an ambassador.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll. I'll say with advantage due to the very, very, intense, believable stare of Scanlan backing you up.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: He gives a nod. “All right, but good luck.” The two guards open the doors, and as they do you can already hear raised voices shouting back and forth. Can't really make out the words, but as you step into the inside you can see there is a clerk's desk. With a clerk sitting there, keeping one ear closed as he's trying to write in a book. To the immediate right of them, there is Dr. Dranzel in an argument with a gentleman with a well-kept mustache, thick over the top lip, slicked black hair that curls up in the back in a small poof. He's wearing a breastplate and is standing with an appearance of self-importance. At which point, as you approach, Dr. Dranzel turns and goes, “Oh good. Someone with actual–”

TALIESIN: Shush! Who is this person?

MATT: Everyone gets quiet and the individual standing there goes, “Well apparently, he's the man who's bothering me. Hm?”

TALIESIN: What do you do, sir?

SAM: I just throw Dranzel a quick little wink.

TALIESIN: What do you do, sir?

MATT: “I'm a performer.” (slight chuckle)

TALIESIN: Excellent, he's a performer. You may leave, we have no need of you.

LAURA: (whispered) Oh, shit.

MATT: “Hmph.” He adjusts his hat and–

TALIESIN: Guard, escort the commoner out of the room.

MATT: The guards instinctively step up and take his arms and they lead him out. Dr. Dranzel, taken aback and the whole time he's looking at Scanlan with this look of like–

SAM: You heard the ambassador; please leave.

(laughter)

MATT: (boom) The doors close behind. The individual steps forward.

TALIESIN: Now that that's been taken care of, who is an authority that I may speak to?

MATT: “That, I'm afraid, would be me. (sly chuckle) Pleasure to meet you. I'm Warden Cyrus Hume. What is your name?”

TALIESIN: Cyrus Hume. I'm Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III of Whitestone.

MATT: “This does me no service.”

TALIESIN: It will.

MATT: “Hmph.”

TALIESIN: I am, of course, the newly appointed ambassador from Whitestone, and I have been brought down here because apparently you are holding one of my performers. A performer who is meant to be heading towards Whitestone in the next three weeks to perform for my sister.

MATT: “Describe your performer, sir.”

TALIESIN: Oh, small, plain, female. (dismissive sigh)

MATT: (sighs heavily) “I know of the one you speak. The same one we're arguing– I assume this other individual that just left is one of your performers as well.”

TALIESIN: Yes, he is. He is one of the official performers– they're supposed to be performing at the new coronation of a brand new temple in Whitestone. Much has been arranged, much has been paid for, and I don't want to explain any of this to the royal court.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TALIESIN: Casting– no, not yet. 13.

MATT: Okay. He goes–

TALIESIN: If you were to be agreeable to helping us move this along, I would remember the favor. Whitestone would remember the favor.

MATT: “Good. Well, listen. There are fines for damages, or she sits until tried. Now.”

TALIESIN: Damages?

MATT: “The damages to the Nervous Brook pub are estimated to be upwards of 450 gold pieces, and the fine for drunken battery and disturbing the peace amounts to 250 gold pieces. 700 total and I would gladly let you take that rabid dug-grubber off of my hands.”

SAM: You'll watch what you say about her.

MATT: “Oh, will I?”

TALIESIN: Shush, performer. Well, sir, I appreciate your candor, I appreciate the cut of your jib, and I appreciate that you are a man of honor and of your station. It is very, very rare to find someone who respects such things. Obviously the damages must be paid–

MATT: “If you wish to discuss it with the three in question–” He points to one of the cells on the other side of the room and you can see that there is a set of bars, and you can vaguely see what looks like the shape of a person who's just slumped in the cell. Mostly cast in shadow.

TALIESIN: Who are they?

MATT: “Bar patrons. And they're all worse for wear.”

TALIESIN: Do we know what happened?

MATT: “The dog has teeth. Three against one, if the stories say true. The bar patrons and the owner of the establishment all verified that she indeed started and finished it.”

TALIESIN: I don't care who started or finished it. Obviously, we will pay for the damages out of your troupe's pocket.

SAM: Your majesty, are you sure you don't want to write a check from the treasury?

TALIESIN: Quite.

SAM: I've got the checkbook with me. We could just write a check.

TALIESIN: We will write a check for our friend's pocket, but for the damages, I feel that some responsibility must be taken.

MATT: “I'm not familiar with this check you speak of. I deal in gold, as does Emon. What good does this do me in my station if I am to show up with a simple piece of paper?”

TALIESIN: He has a very fair point.

SAM: (whispers) Your brand of subterfuge is not what I had in mind.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: What good is subterfuge when there's such an opportunity to create a ballad? Some sort of ballad about a cautionary tale.

SAM: I could have picked anyone to be with me here. Not this. You're rubbing my face in it because I threw your gun in the lava.

TALIESIN: You chose so poorly. You chose so poorly. It is truly impressive how poorly you chose.

MATT: “Stop wasting my time, if you're going to retrieve this invalid, do so quickly.”

TALIESIN: You may come pick up your gold from Castle Greyskull in the morning. It will be waiting for you, of course, sir. In the meantime, here is 20 gold for your trouble. On top of the gold you will be expecting for all fines imposed.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: (high-pitched) One.

MATT: He rolled a natural 20.

TALIESIN: All right, bring it. Bring it.

MATT: “Well, I appreciate your attempt to maneuver around my station of which you hold so clear. You seemingly attempt to bribe a warden of the stockade in an attempt to retrieve what appears to be a relatively… How do I put it? Immoral, destitute and feral creature.”

SAM: Warden. This is just like this bastard. He always goes around trying to boss people around and throw his money around. And I turn and I punch Percy in the face.

MATT: Okay! Roll for an attack.

SAM: Oh, shit. Going for another one. A nine. Probably not.

MATT: Plus your strength modifier.

SAM: I don't have any strength. One, so that's ten.

MATT: Ten. Percy, do you take it?

TALIESIN: Yes, I take it.

MATT: Okay. Whack! A solid hit across the face. You have to lean into it and make it look more impactful than it really is.

TALIESIN: (overly dramatic) Oh!

SAM: And then I turn around, and I punch a guard.

LAURA: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Where are you going with this?

MATT: Roll another attack.

SAM: 13.

MATT: 13. You whirl around, and one of the guards is rushing forward to try and break this up, and as you swing towards him, your fist collides with the side of his helmet. It definitely shakes him for a second. It doesn't do much in the way of damage, but it does kind of hurt your knuckles a little bit. Now the guard's like, (startled sound) and stumbles back a bit.

SAM: I've just had enough with all of you people. We performers demand respect and deserve it as well.

MATT: The warden's now stepped forward and put his hand on the side of his blade and says, “Am I to understand you walked in here and immediately struck a guard of the stockade?”

SAM: I've just had it up to here with being bossed around by people like him.

MATT: “Well, would it make you feel better if he's thrown in prison?”

SAM: It would.

TALIESIN: It would make me feel better if he was thrown in prison.

MATT: “Oh, don't worry. You'll both be going.”

MARISHA: About this time, I come over the earpiece and I go, how's it going in there, guys?

SAM: Great.

TALIESIN: Great. Everything's fine.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Good. Just let me know if you need me.

MATT: He looks to the side and two guards now, one of the ones that punched you and another one to the side both step up and are reaching–

TALIESIN: Won't it be unfortunate when you find out I have diplomatic immunity?

SAM: Diplomatic immunity.

MATT: You both have been manhandled and brought your hands behind. You feel manacles being pulled forth, and the warden's just looking down upon both of you.

TALIESIN: I blame you for this.

SAM: You should blame me for this. I'm sorry. I just had a really shitty day, all right? He doesn't deserve this. Let him go. Just take me.

MATT: “Very well. Now.” And you feel the release as the manacles come away. You are escorted out of the room. You are put in shackles, brought, and thrown into the same jail cell as Kaylie.

TALIESIN: All right. How much to get both of them out?

MATT: As you're being pushed out?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'll bring it.

MATT: There's no answer at the moment. The doors close behind you, and you're thrust off of four steps. Make an acrobatics check.

MARISHA: They were tossing your ass out.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: All right. You manage to catch yourself with a small tumble over the shoulder, land Willy Wonka-style, well stuck. As you're thrown, you hit the ground. You can see off in the corner of the cell, Kaylie, arms crossed, sitting on the ground. She leans forward a little bit, and you can see the light hits the side of her face, and she has a bit of a welt there and a bit of a black eye, but she doesn't look too worse for wear.

TALIESIN: Now for the love of God, just wait until nightfall and Dimension Door out of there.

SAM: Did I hear that?

MATT: Yeah, you'd hear that.

SAM: Good idea. Thanks, Percy, for your help.

TALIESIN: You're welcome. Wait until nightfall.

SAM: Huh? Oh. All right.

MATT: As she leans forward, she goes, “Huh. Like father, like daughter, aye?”

SAM: You could say so. I heard you had quite a night last night at the bar.

MATT: “Hm. Felt good. I like breaking faces.”

SAM: Apparently you're very good at it. I saw– I got a glimpse of your victims over there.

MATT: (laughs) “They had it coming. Don't know why, but I had a feeling somewhere in their life, they probably deserved it. Most men do.”

SAM: Yep, you're right about that. Stay away from all men. Forever.

MATT: “They were fuckwits. Their faces were so punchable.”

SAM: I know that feeling. Listen, I've come to get you out of here.

MATT: (laughs) “Apparently you've not done that very well.”

SAM: Don't worry. I've still got some tricks up my sleeve. Just wanted to make sure you're all right. Did they hurt you in any way?

MATT: “Only one person's really hurt me recently.”

LIAM: Cold as ice.

MATT: “Look, Scanlan. Father. I spent a lifetime hating you. I'd imagined the moment we would finally meet for so long, planned it out in my head, had it all worked out. My idea of you, what you'd be like, what you'd say, and you know what? Up until last night, I was pretty spot-on. I don't know what I wanted. I have a lot to process, to think about. But I'd prefer not to do it in this dank cell, so if you have a way out, please, now's the time to do it.”

SAM: You think now? All right, is anyone watching?

MATT: There are two guards that are not watching directly, but they're muscled up against the bars and keeping an eye over the shoulder.

SAM: I'll need a distraction. Do you think you can come up with one?

MATT: Her eyes turn for a second and she goes, (chuckles) “I think that can be done.” She leans up to the side of the bar and peeks her head out for a second. Closes her mouth, cups it with her hand, and you start hearing from the opposite side of the room, through arcane ventriloquism, these three different male voices going, “I'll fuck you up!” You hear punches and you hear all of this screaming and chaos. At which point, the two guards look over. One of them gives the other a motion, and they both run off to see the other side of the room. She looks back at you.

SAM: You'll have to teach me that trick. And then I Dimension Door us out onto the street.

MATT: As you reach for her, she still pulls away a little bit, but you still grab hold and (poof) puff of smoke. You guys (magic sound) appear outside, landing a couple of feet above the ground and catch yourselves. You're off to the side of the stockade where it meets with one of the nearby walls. No one seems to immediately notice you, other than a couple of people that are walking down the street that see two individuals appear out of the ether and land onto the ground.

SAM: All right. Let's get out of here. Percy, I didn't wait quite until nightfall.

TALIESIN: I assumed you wouldn't. We're already walking back.

SAM: All right, we'll catch up.

MATT: You guys head back towards Greyskull? All right.

MARISHA: I'm glad I came in handy for that field trip.

SAM: Oh, shit! Burn it down! Burn the stockades down!

LIAM: I'd also like to point out that Grog's single nut-flick did more damage than your two full-on punches.

(laughter)

MATT: This is true! All right. Eventually, you guys make your way back. As you do, you gather, and about five minutes behind you, the rest of Dr. Dranzel's troupe arrives, looking a little bit frazzled and a little confused. He steps forward to the rest of you and goes, “I don't know what you did, but there's a manhunt for two gnomes right now over by the Promenade. But good on you. Might want to lay low for a little bit.”

SAM: Good thinking.

TALIESIN: The troupe may want to get out of town for a bit, as well.

MATT: “I think that's the plan. We were going to stay a few more days– we had a couple of gigs lined up, but I think we've pressed our luck far enough, so all right! Everyone feeling spectacular?” He claps his hands and the rest of the troupe start grabbing their goods and their instruments and what little cases and bags they do. Kaylie runs off real fast and comes back with her one over-the-shoulder satchel that carries all of her worldly belongings. “Then let us be off.” He gives a little tip of the hat to Scanlan with a nod. Looks to the rest of you. “We greatly appreciate your hospitality. We're sorry for any confusion, misunderstandings, and general debauchery. Good night to you all.” He turns around and they all start walking out. Kaylie begins stepping and she stops and looks over her shoulder towards you, Scanlan, and says, “Don't come looking for me. When I'm ready, I'll come find you.” She turns back around and leaves.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: I liked them. They were fun.

TRAVIS: Did you tell her you're her dad yet?

SAM: That's not– She figured it out, Grog.

TRAVIS: That's awkward.

SAM: Yes. Yes, it is.

LAURA: They forgot to grab their gold. I like them!

MATT: That they did, actually.

MARISHA: Maybe they thought we were even?

LIAM: Probably should check the silverware, though, in the keep.

LAURA: Oh. I run and check the silverware.

TALIESIN: I check to make sure the skull is still there.

MATT: The kitchen is cleaned out.

LAURA: No!

MATT: All of the silverware.

LAURA: What about Jarett? He was supposed to be keeping an eye on them.

MARISHA: Yeah, what the fuck? What's with Jarett?

MATT: Jarett was one man keeping track of multiple people, with one very small, quick child that you were the only one able to keep an eye on.

LAURA: I hate your friends!

MARISHA: They were good drinking buddies.

SAM: They're all right. They've got their good qualities, too.

TRAVIS: Just the silverware's missing?

LAURA: What about our rooms? Is it just the kitchen that's cleaned out, or did they take everything in the keep?

MATT: Oh, no, no, no. None of the rooms have been touched, except for the guest room where some of them were staying.

LAURA: There was shit in there, anyway.

MATT: Yeah, there wasn't much in there, but a couple of candlesticks, things that were just decor. Anything that could possibly be hocked for a little bit of change from those rooms is gone.

LAURA: They don't know I shopped for everything at Home Goods, so joke's on them.

MATT: You gather probably no more than two to three hundred gold worth of materials were taken in total. That includes fine cookware, that includes decor, that includes a couple of previous art pieces that you had collected–

TALIESIN: Please tell me they stole the giant painting.

SAM: It's not here yet.

TALIESIN: Damn it!

MATT: It hasn't been delivered yet. That's probably in transit.

TALIESIN: No!

LIAM: And where would it have been hidden on their person?

TALIESIN: They could have rolled it up and stuck it where the sun don't shine.

MARISHA: A 20 by six foot canvas?

TALIESIN: Some caverns run deep.

SAM: I'm going to check my bed just to see if there's any shit on it.

MATT: You go and inspect pretty extensively. It does not appear that anyone has left you a Scanlan surprise.

MARISHA: Percy and I go downstairs to make sure the skull is still there.

MATT: Skull is still in the workshop, yes.

MARISHA: Beautiful.

MATT: What do you guys want to do right now?

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend some time working on the special barrel and see if I can get that up and running.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this point, it's closing towards dusk.

LAURA: We should heal up and get ready to take this to Whitestone in the morning, yes?

MARISHA: I guess so.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18? All right. You disassemble elements of the pistol. You get the feeling that the way it's weighted, to attach the hand mortar to the pistol, it's still going to continue to be a very unwieldy thing. You are probably best to design them as separate pieces. Unfortunately, the way the pistol's balanced, for aim and such? The mechanism that's required to lob an object for the mortar to be able to do any help with is going to throw off your ability to aim much with the pistol, going forward. Not to mention increase the misfire score by crazy amounts. But you could create them both separately and swap out as needed.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: All right. You guys spend the evening. You rest up, you're back to full health, you're good to go. As the morning comes around–

TRAVIS: I have a question.

MATT: Yes?

TRAVIS: Can I wait until everyone goes to bed and can I make my way into Percy's workshop?

TALIESIN: It's locked.

MATT: As you get to the workshop, you check the door and it is, indeed, locked.

MARISHA: We stashed it.

TRAVIS: What's the door made of?

MATT: It's made of solid metal. It was constructed per specifications to be able to withstand concussive blasts in case of accident from the inside.

TRAVIS: Can I try to pick the lock?

MATT: You have no lockpicks.

TRAVIS: Can I shove an axe in the lock hole?

MATT: You can.

SAM: Clang!

MATT: Make a strength check.

TRAVIS: I have a greatsword that's just a normal greatsword.

LAURA: Are you going to try to shove it in the lock?

TRAVIS: Yeah, like a credit card in the side of the thing. Like a crowbar. That was crap.

MATT: What did you roll?

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Ten. In trying to wedge the sword into the side of the door, you eventually feel a shift as you push. You feel it gives way, and you look and withdraw the greatsword, which is now bent at an angle to the side. Yeah, that sword's not going to be functional in combat any further.

TRAVIS: All right, I go to bed.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Nothing good ever happens to you in my workshop. It's just not a good place for you. Too many things.

MATT: All right, so. Morning comes around. You guys come back rested. As you each individually come to consciousness and finding your way down, the first thing you're met by is a very perturbed Laina, who as soon as you come down, says, “I'm terribly sorry. I went to make breakfast, and there's nothing to make breakfast with! I don't know what happened.”

LAURA: It's okay. Scanlan is going to buy all new stuff for our kitchens.

SAM: I'm supposed to lay low, though.

LAURA: Oh, that's okay. You can give her all the gold that she needs to buy new things for the kitchen.

SAM: I have only–

LAURA: You have about a thousand gold because I gave it to you.

SAM: I gave 50 to Percy, which you didn't use.

MATT: To buy basic cooking supplies, it wouldn't be more than 30 gold to restock the entire kitchen. It was more other elements of the keep.

SAM: Including the silverware?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh, great.

LAURA: It wasn't fancy silverware. It was utilitarian.

MATT: It was decent. It was functional. It was included with the keep.

SAM: All right, here's 50. Go get us a decent set of silverware.

LAURA: And other things. Or send somebody else, if you'd rather.

MATT: “I'm not much help around here right now, am I? All right.” And she runs off, returning a short time later, with groceries, as well, that she found while she was out. Makes a fresh meal for all of you. Partway through breakfast, there is a knock at the edge of the dining hall, and you see Cordell, your half-orc guardian there. Has his big, heavy crossbow at his side. “Sorry to bother you while you're eating. You have a messenger who wishes to speak to you at the front gate.”

LAURA: I'll go.

MATT: “All right. Follow me.”

SAM: Vax never came home last night?

MATT: Did you come home? No? Vax has not showed up yet.

SAM: Should we be worried?

TALIESIN: We're going to have to collect him before we go.

MATT: As you go to the gate, it's opened up and you can see there, standing by himself, Seeker Asum. Hood back, bald halfling helm with his tattoos greeting you. He goes, “Hello, Vex.”

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: “I've come to request your presence at the Precepts Stage within the Cloudtop District near dusk. All of Vox Machina, this evening, if you don't mind.”

LAURA: Oh. Well, why?

MATT: “Uriel and I have been in extensive discussion these past few days, and the reveal of Riskel's betrayal has had a profound effect on Uriel, and rumors have been spreading amongst the district and the higher order of the city. Uriel is to make a statement regarding it and to prevent any political intrigue will talk to the politically inclined populace first. As members of the council, we would like for you to be there to help us based on the reaction. If you would be so kind?”

LAURA: Yes, of course. I'll tell the rest of the group. We were planning on heading out to Whitestone today, but we can put that off if it's very important?

MATT: “It's rather important.”

LAURA: All right. What were you guys fighting about before? Can you tell me?

MATT: “It's nothing you need to worry about.”

LAURA: Really? It looked kind of serious.

MATT: “I think tonight's discussion will absolve any questions you have.”

LAURA: Is anybody in trouble?

MATT: “No. You're fine. You've done nothing.”

LAURA: Can I insight check him?

SAM: We should torture him to find out.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot off a limb.

LAURA: 23?

MATT: 23? He seems fairly forthright and honest. There is a sense of urgency to him. He's really insisting you guys be there.

LAURA: Okay. Well, we will be, then.

MATT: “Wondrous. I will notify the rest of the council. I look forward to seeing you this evening.”

LAURA: Yes, if you see my brother anywhere, can you send him home?

MATT: “Yeah, I'll keep an eye out. I have a network in the city. I can probably locate him within the hour, if need be.”

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: “No worries.” He walks away. As he steps away, you look for a second. You glance away and look back, and he's gone.

LAURA: He is so sneaky. I need to train with him more.

TALIESIN: Like Batman.

LAURA: I go back and tell everybody what he just told me.

SAM: Oh my god!

LAURA: Right?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I suppose we'll have to put it off for a day, then.

SAM: Yes. Is the skull going to be safe here while we're gone?

TALIESIN: I think so.

SAM: Can it see inside our keep? Can it channel some beast?

TALIESIN: It's locked very far away right now, in a very secure room.

SAM: But not secure magically.

MARISHA: Yeah. Percy, maybe me and you should make some reinforcements or something?

LIAM: It's just radioactive material in the basement. It's fine.

SAM: What if it's a portal? What if it can send a dragon to us, or a worm or something?

TRAVIS: It did say as long as that house stands, it will be very powerful.

TALIESIN: Well, do you think it would be safer somewhere? Do you think there's something you could conjure, perhaps, around it? Or should we move it to another room?

LAURA: I feel like your room is very secure.

TALIESIN: We could always send it straight away to Whitestone. But…

MARISHA: But we'd have to put it with someone else, right?

TALIESIN: We'd have to let someone take it to Whitestone. It could be there today. Or we could keep it in my room, or we could move it perhaps into the temple of Sarenrae?

LAURA: Maybe… how many times can you use that little tree thing, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Once a day.

LAURA: Fuck.

MARISHA: I know. Or else I would totally run it over and run it back.

TALIESIN: Oh. But you can run it over and run back.

MARISHA: Oh, if I use your thing?

SAM: If you, if you go there, take the stone from his sister and you can come right back.

LAURA: Yeah, take the stone from his sister and come back.

MARISHA: I could.

LAURA: Let her know it's useless after the one use.

SAM: Well, let's not lie to Percy's sister. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Is it safe in Whitestone? I mean, the temple of Sarenrae is at least here.

LAURA: Got a good idea. What if you go, you don't take the skull, you tell Allura what's going on, bring her back with you through the tree!

SAM: We keep summoning Allura to solve our magical problems. We brought her to Whitestone and now we're bringing her back?

LAURA: She's really, really smart!

SAM: All right…

LAURA: She can go right back, you can send her right back.

MARISHA: What if she doesn't come?

LAURA: Well, then you come back–

MARISHA: I'd be using a 6th-level spell as a glorified messenger? 'Hey, we found a scary skull.'

SAM: Hey, you used it yesterday for no reason, too.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow! Oh my god.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) The sickest burn. That's the sickest burn! Oh fuck!

TALIESIN: And somehow the coffee has not been poured on your head. That's the greatest magic trick I've seen all night. How are you still dry? It's witchcraft.

MARISHA: You know what, Scanlan, why don't you figure out how to get the damn skull back to Whitestone by yourself, how's that?

TALIESIN: Why don't we just let it be in the room for now– Let's let it be in the room for now, nothing happened last night.

MARISHA: Nothing happened last night, but it seems like a ticking time bomb.

TALIESIN: I'm going down, I have to go get my things anyway, so I'm going to go down. Everything seems fine, doesn't it?

MATT: Untampered, room seems left as it was.

LAURA: It doesn't seem tampered with at all, the door?

TALIESIN: The door is steel reinforced, lined and bolted to the wall; it's not going anywhere. This room is designed to explode.

MARISHA: I mean, I could– all right.

LAURA: Maybe we should make sure there's, like, fabric over it.

TALIESIN: It's hidden in the room.

TRAVIS: Maybe we should go in and check on it.

MARISHA: I could Wall Of Stone another kind of box around it.

TALIESIN: I go into the room, I shut the door behind me. I check my hiding place.

MATT: Untouched.

TALIESIN: And it's untouched and perfectly reasonable. I return it to my hiding place. Which, if I have to reveal it later, I will happily tell you where it's hidden. Shut and lock the door behind me. Everything's fine.

TRAVIS: That's a relief.

TALIESIN: Let's find your brother.

MARISHA: All right. I guess we're staying in town.

SAM: We're leaving the skull?

MARISHA: Seems okay.

SAM: (laughing) Let's at least post Jarett here.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's post someone here, I guess.

MATT: Jarett's already, by the way, off to the side listening to this whole conversation.

SAM: Do you ever sleep, Jarett?

MATT: “I sleep when I'm not needed. But it seems right now I am needed, and I am more than happy to stand guard. It's what you pay me for.”

SAM: You're so cool.

LAURA: You're seriously the coolest guy.

MARISHA: Yeah, you're great.

MATT: “You're being absolutely ridiculous. Continue.”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: If anything strange happens, make note of it.

MATT: “Of course.”

MARISHA: Don't let anyone in or out.

TALIESIN: Well, he can't, he doesn't have the key anyway.

MATT: “No. This is true.”

MARISHA: I'm just saying.

MATT: “It'll be done.”

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: “All right.”

MARISHA: Okay?

MATT: “Okay.”

LAURA: We need to give him a raise.

MATT: “Yes, you do.”

SAM: Why don't you just take it from my money?

TALIESIN: I throw ten gold at him right now, just in lieu of– I throw ten gold.

MATT: “Very generous of you, Percival.”

TALIESIN: It's the very least.

MATT: And he sets up his chair in the far corner, staring at the door again, and sets his crossbow over his shoulder and just sits waiting.

TALIESIN: Let's go find your brother.

MATT: Now, Vax, what are you up to?

LIAM: I mean, I'm assuming– I didn't go there to find anything, but I went just to think, and I didn't see anything by chance, no?

MATT: Nope. You detect no movement inside whatsoever. Dark windows over the course of the evening, no sign.

LIAM: All right, well, I guess I'll go back to the keep.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I will sit up. No one's there? I'll sit up in my sister's room.

MATT: All right. Well, as you guys are walking back–

LIAM: Stealth, please. I'm not walking in the open.

MATT: All right, make a stealth check.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27? All right. All of you that are out looking for him, make a perception check.

MARISHA: 29.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: As you guys spend a good portion of the morning scouting about the usual paths that you take as a group, knowing the back alleys and the various paths that you walk through Emon to ensure that you avoid the main thoroughfares and the most-used walkways, as you're glancing about you see a quick shadow shift past about the size of the individual you are seeking.

TALIESIN: (puffs air) Sorry.

MATT: You look over and you see Vax dart off around the corner and dodge down an alleyway.

MARISHA: Vax? Vax!

MATT: You faintly hear Keyleth's voice behind you.

LIAM: Not now, Kiki. And I just keep going.

LAURA: Did you find him?

MARISHA: Nope.

LAURA: Vax!

MATT: You guys spend the better part of the day searching for him. Asking questions, nobody has an idea. A few individuals try and squeeze some gold out of you. You eventually manage to gather they have no idea what they're talking about. By about early afternoon, two o'clock in the afternoon, you eventually make your way back to the keep, figuring that he'll find his way back if he doesn't want to be found. Upon arrival, the guards also haven't seen him. But once you go up to your room to get into more comfortable attire, your brother is sitting inside your room, waiting.

LAURA: Well, there you are. What's going on?

LIAM: Look, everything's fine. All right?

LAURA: I believe you. Fully.

LIAM: Everything's fine. I just don't know what we're doing, anymore.

LAURA: What do you mean?

LIAM: I don't know what we're doing, I don't know why we're doing it. I don't know! I've just been thinking about it, I mean, what is the point of our lives?

LAURA: Well, that's a very deep question.

LIAM: Yeah. It's fine, let's go. I don't know what I missed. I can go wherever everybody wants to go.

LAURA: No. (sigh) Sit down! Seems like a problem in your mind. Are you mad because we're stealing gold? Are you mad because everybody's running off in directions and you can't keep up? Are you mad because you almost died?

LIAM: No. When it was just you and me, I knew what we were doing. We were just trying to survive.

LAURA: Right! That's really all we're doing now, just on a grander scale.

LIAM: (sighs) We're running into this shit on purpose now. Which is all right, when there's reason. I don't always know why we're doing the things we do. It was fun, breaking into that house. I'm good at it!

LAURA: Yes, you are.

LIAM: I don't know why we did it! I don't know why I'm working with a large fucking beast of a man who seems to despise me. Day after day.

LAURA: He doesn't despise you.

LIAM: The fuck he doesn't. I don't know why we're doing it. I don't know why we're with most of these people! And I love these people, but I don't know why we're doing it! And I just want you to think about a little bit too. And I walk out the door.

LAURA: I get ready for the evening.

MATT: Okay. As the sun draws across the sky, pushing towards dusk as the light blue begins to turn to a somewhat purplish-orange hue, you all gather your materials, whatever attire you wish to bring, and make your way towards the Cloudtop District. Anyone wish to do anything else?

LIAM: I'm going through my vast array of cloaks.

(laughter)

LIAM: And I'm taking the other one. And putting of all my many two cloaks, I'm going to put the other one on.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Can I swing by Gilmore's and just see if he or– Sherri works there?

MATT: Sherri works there.

SAM: Sherri works there, if they're around?

MATT: Going to ask. Sherri kinda greets you as you enter and goes, “Hello, Scanlan. Gilmore is back in Westruun, weeks away from opening his new establishment, but can I help you?”

SAM: Two things. One, when he returns, he made me a potion, a while back. I'm running a bit low. It was a scrying sort of thing. When he gets back, maybe he can whip me up another batch for next time I come pay a visit, but also– oh, yes?

MATT: She puts up her hand for a second and walks off through the beaded curtains in the back, and comes back with Gilmore.

SAM: Oh!

MATT: Gilmore steps forth. “Terribly sorry, Scanlan, trying to keep business right now kind of on the DL. There's a special event tonight.” And you see how dressed up he is. “I imagine, being part of the council, you're probably invited too.”

SAM: Yes, I was just going there now.

MATT: “Oh, well, I'll accompany you!”

SAM: All right, we'll save business for another day.

MATT: “Well, what business did you have?”

SAM: I just wondered– I may want to try to find someone at some point tonight. I don't know how.

MATT: “Hmm, scrying. We've had this conversation before.”

SAM: Yes, but a different sort, a less fecal sort.

MATT: “Not going to lie, I'm very glad to hear that.”

LIAM: Fecal matters.

SAM: I don't know how to scry, I don't know how to find someone or what I need. I may have a hair strand or two, but I don't have much to go on.

MATT: “That should be plenty. If I can't help you, I know a few that might be able to.”

SAM: All right.

MATT: “But! Nevertheless.” And he adjusts his collar and he's very, very well dressed in his long, deep navy robes, a high collar that nips at the side of his neck. “Shall we?”

SAM: Absolutely. You lead!

MATT: He leads you out towards the Cloudtop.

TRAVIS: Could I have also gone to Gilmore's?

MATT: If you'd like to.

SAM: Oh! Oh, Grog! Oh, Jesus!

TRAVIS: No no no, just, we go in together and when he's talking to Gilmore, I find one of the lesser clerks and I say: Do you sell lockpicks here?

MATT: The other clerk is probably a new hire, you haven't seen him here before. Young, early 20s, very, very thin hair, kind of waify. “Lockpicks? This isn't–”

TRAVIS: Yeah, you know. I keep locking myself in the shitter and I'm really tired of asking people to come let me out. It's really–

MATT: “I wish I could help. Those are outlawed, I'm sorry. That's not really–”

TRAVIS: Look, I've got these huge clumsy-fuck hands. Is there anything you could give me, maybe magical, that would just keep me from being embarrassed in front of my friends? It smells so bad and then they all come and the door opens and it's just awful!

MATT: As you're getting closer and closer to him, this, looming goliath who's feigning fear and worry in his face, the guy just retracts. “I'm sorry! I don't– We're closing shop!”

TRAVIS: No, do you have like a wand or a potion or like, a thing–

MATT: “Good night!” And he runs up the stairs to the second floor.

TRAVIS: Fucking shit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Lovely goods you have here. I'll let myself out.

MATT: “We'll come with you don't worry!” He puts his other arm out.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: The three of you arm in arm.

LIAM: He's currently like this.

MATT: Yeah! He's, like, lifted.

SAM: It's the Wizard of Oz!

MATT: Yeah! You skip along, the rest of you make your way to the Cloudtop, and you make your way around the stage and it's against the wall, near one of the entrances to the Cloudtop, but on the interior. And you can see there is a rather large stage up against the wall. There is already a crowd gathered. You see merchants, highborn families, political guests, upper-station military, a number of well-dressed representatives from all over Emon have gathered for this. You guys meet up with the rest of the group and you kind of, you know, gravitate. Gilmore gives everyone a quick wave and gives you a respectful nod. “Aha! Yes!” and he wanders off and starts mingling with some of the other guests. Just as the sun vanishes beneath the distant horizon, a procession of palace guards approach the area, the crowd parting, as Uriel arrives with the escort, flanked by his family, and the current inner council of Tal'Dorei with Arbiter Brom, Seeker Asum, Tofor Brotorus. Allura is absent of course, for being in Whitestone. They all step onto the stage along with the guards as well, as cheers and light applause begins to break out. Not crazy go wild, but just like (muted) “Hooray.”

MARISHA: Rich people clapping, sure.

MATT: Yeah, you know.

MATT: Guards have already set up a few chairs on the stage. Uriel begins to sit on one as his family gathers behind it, and he puts his hand out and motions to everybody to go ahead and hush down. As he does, he stands up from his chair. “Friends and family. Allies of this fair city of Emon. Houses-in-arms to the Tal'Dorei family. Guests, guardians and law-keepers alike. I thank you for coming on such short notice. Now, it has not escaped me that talk spreads quickly within these walls, and rumors only seek to undermine trust. It is true Lord Riskel Daxio, honored member of our council and overseer of development within Emon for many years, has unfortunately passed away. We mourn our friend, and ask you all to respect his legacy enough to not to smear his name. That being said, this was just one of many hardships that has befallen our council and my family this past year. Many that have left me with a terrible burden. We've been faced with deceit, and I failed to see it. We've been beset with allies in need, and I have been noncommittal in aiding them. We've been clouded by demonic powers, and I've failed to protect my family. And my responsibility to all of you. I look back at my bloodline, at my father and his father before him, and I plainly see what I am not. These times are different. This wonderful city has grown these past centuries into something grand: a beacon of civilization, here in these lands that my ancestors gave name to. My family has built us up, and I feel that there is little more my family can accomplish for the greatness of these lands. It has outgrown our meager guidance. I did not choose to be your sovereign; it was by blood that I came into this. And I did my very, very best to live up to your expectations. I can see the future of you all and I wish to safeguard it, by leaving it not in one hand, but the hands of many. As of the end of this week, I will be stepping down as your sovereign. The Tal'Dorei bloodline will no longer hold the fate of this realm. We will instead leave the council to rule.” And he looks about at the other council members, on out to you, out to the rest of the group. “There will be a chosen few, exemplary members of our society, who will step up and aid in this task, and join the council as well. You, the peoples of Emon, will be the ones to guide us to a new age of prosperity.” At this point now the claps come in again and some cheers happen. There's a little bit of confusion in the crowd, but for the most part everyone seems to be into it. At this moment, one of the guards hurries up the side of the stage and, you notice, whispers something into Asum's ear, who leans over and gives a nod and worried expression. Vex.

LAURA: (giggles) Yay!

SAM: (radio DJ voice) Don't forget to subscribe to Geek and Sundry, so you can see archives of the show and many others! I don't even know–

LAURA: Wait.

TRAVIS: It's hard, right? When one ear's in and one ear's out, it's tough. I was trying to plug it.

SAM: Remember, Liam doesn't really hate Travis in real life!

(laughter)

LAURA: Wait, wait. As soon as I notice that, I touch Grog and Vax's shoulders and I point up really fast.

MATT: You look up and– you guys all gather this as well. You can see, piercing out of some of the cloud cover above, what looks to be two fast-moving streaks of color, black and red. They just– (whoosh). And then you can't see them any more.

LAURA: Could I tell from my favored enemy-ness that it was dragons?

MATT: You can make a hefty perception check if you like to see exactly how much detail you can make out.

TRAVIS: Can I look up, too?

MATT: No. I'm giving her this because of her really high perception.

LAURA: No, that was wrong. 23.

MATT: 23. It's hard to make out details from this distance. They're moving quick.

LAURA: One black and one red?

MATT: Uriel now goes, “I am beyond confident that all doubts in the capabilities of those I leave the city to, and more–” And it's at this point you start hearing bells going off around the city. Tops of walls in the distance. You recognize these. These are warning bells. At which point the crowd starts murmuring and getting nervous, and Uriel puts his hand out. “Please, please. I–”

LAURA: Can I use my Primeval Awareness to see if it's actually dragons close by?

MATT: Okay. You begin to concentrate on that for the moment. Asum now steps up and says, “Everyone, if I might ask you to all quickly make your way to your respective homes. There is a small emergency we must attend to.” At this point, you guys hear this (whoosh) sound and you turn around just in time to see what looks to be a large, larger than you've seen before, white dragon just slam into the side of Allura's tower in the distance. Claws clunk into the side, digging into the stonework, wings unfurled, it looks into the upper window of where her actual parlor is and peeks in for a second before just unleashing a blast of icy cold magical breath into the inside of the tower. You can see now, screams start tearing around you as the guards start getting their weapons ready. At which point, the dragon pulls its head back and looks about at everyone screaming, and pushes off the tower. As it does you see the stonework crack, and the top of Allura's tower shatter–

LAURA: Oh, my god!

MATT: – and then begin to collapse, smashing into the city streets around you. At which point, the dragon (wingbeats) and takes off again above you. At this point in time: utter chaos has been unleashed, and you can see now the guards are rushing Uriel off the table. You guys are there caught amongst this chaos. At this very moment, as the white dragon heads deeper into the city, you hear a loud impact that silences the chaotic air around you, as the wall that the stage is buttressed up against now has perched above it an enormous vision of death: a grinning ancient green dragon. Its wings are curled around its form as it looks down at the rest of you in the middle of this open space and goes, “Delicious cattle. Raishan enjoys the taste of fear.”

LAURA AND MARISHA: Raishan?

MATT: At which point it leaps down onto the stage, crushing part of it. I would like you all to roll initiative.

MARISHA: No, what?!

SAM: We can't fight four dragons. Can we?

MARISHA: Wait, did you say four? He didn't say four.

LAURA and SAM: There's a red and a black, a white and a green.

TRAVIS: Are the red and black dragons?

LAURA: They were red and black– of course they were fucking dragons!

TRAVIS: You're sure?

LAURA: Everything else was dragons; why wouldn't it be dragons?

TALIESIN: For the love of God and all that is holy.

MARISHA: Oh Jesus Christ, Taliesin.

LAURA: Are we fighting something now?

MARISHA: Are we just fighting one?

SAM: Oh, hi, dragon!

LAURA: Oh, hi, dragon, you're my favorite customer.

MATT: Grog and Vex were there. Percy was here. Pike was here.

SAM: Don't worry, I'll kill it with music.

MARISHA: Holy balls!

MATT: And this is the chaotic pattern of individuals amongst here.

SAM: My god, look at all those fuckers!

MATT: All right! Now, if I could go ahead and have the initiative scores from you guys. 25 to 20?

TRAVIS: 20 again.

MATT: Anybody else? All right. Okay. 20 to 15?

LIAM: 15 again.

MARISHA: 15 as well.

MATT: All right. Ten to five?

LAURA: 14.

MATT: Oh, 14, sorry. 14.

SAM: 13.

MATT: Scanlan, Pike is after you. Percy, what did you get?

TALIESIN: Nine.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: The castle looks really badass. It's just off of camera.

MATT: Is it? Let me see if I can scoot this forward a little bit for you guys. Now. Top of the round, Grog you're up.

LAURA: Are we really fighting this right now?

MATT: Right there. You're right there, where the red base is.

LAURA: What's happening?

MARISHA: I dunno, what the fuck do we do?

TRAVIS: Well, I only do one thing– (yelling) I go into a rage! And a frenzied rage! And I take out Craven Edge, and I say, how do you feel about dragon?

MATT: “I think it sounds delicious; let's try a taste.”

TRAVIS: (laughs) Great Weapon Master– I run up to the dragon and hack away!

MATT: All right, make your strikes.

TRAVIS: All right, fucking hell, where's that son of a bitch? 19.

MATT: 19 misses.

SAM: 19 misses?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Everybody hear that?

MARISHA: Dragon.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Just barely hits.

MARISHA: It has an AC of 22. It's some bullshit.

TRAVIS: (mutters) That'll miss.

SAM: Wait, how do I do anything to it?

MATT: Vex, you are familiar with dragons, as one of your enemies. Only the most ancient and powerful of dragons ever reach this size. Chromatic dragons are very selfish entities and do not usually work with individuals of other color patterns. The fact that this is this coordinated between multiple is a very, very bad sign. You're suddenly brought back to a singular moment in your past when you recall seeing four orbs embedded in a wall.

LAURA: Yeah, no, I think we– We brought this on ourselves.

LIAM: Chickens come home to roost.

MATT: So, Grog, damage on the one strike?

TRAVIS: Just on the one. Oh, yeah right, I'm sorry I was so caught up in the fact that I'm just literally going up against death incarnate– hey!

MARISHA: We had no fucking reason to go into that basement.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19? Okay, 19 damage, good to know. All right, that ends your turn. First, it is Raishan. Raishan– (roars). As you can see now, this burbling cloud of greenish black fume just spills out of its open jaws, outward towards the crowd.

LAURA: Jesus!

MATT: All right.

SAM: Jesus Crit!

MATT: I need Grog, Vex, Pike, and Vax, and Percy to all make a constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: Am I in there as well?

SAM: I was in there as well, I think.

MATT: You were as well, yeah. You guys were as well. So all– Yep. Pretty much everyone but– heh– everyone but Trinket, probably for the best.

TRAVIS: Ten plus eight is 18.

SAM: This is a constitution saving throw?

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words on this? Is this a magical effect? No, wait.

MATT: No this isn't a saving throw thing. It just happens.

SAM: Oof!

LAURA: Bad?

SAM: Oh yeah! (laughs)

SAM: Five.

TALIESIN: 14 with resolve.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Seven.

LIAM: 14.

LAURA: 20.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: Okay. All of you take 66 points of poison damage, as you feel your lungs and your outer flesh begin to burn and curl.

LAURA: 20 didn't save?

MATT: Nope. The rest of the crowd around you screams out in horrible pain as the rest of them gasp and fall to the ground.

MARISHA: Holy fuck, he just took out the entire council.

TRAVIS: If I had resistance to poison damage because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind, is that halved?

MATT: You take that halved, yes. You take only 33.

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck me. I'm like, I can't remember– I can't remember what I'm trying to do. We got to go!

MATT: Actually, before your turn is over, the dragon (whoosh) re-positions itself for the rest of the crowd over there. You get an attack of opportunity against it, if you want.

TRAVIS: Oh hey, awesome. That's a 19.

MATT: 19? That does not hit. You go to strike– it's already out of the way and you find yourself even amongst your rage shaken by this, as you look around for the first time and realize that the crowds of people that were around you are now face down, unmoving on the ground, amongst the open space. As it steps across the wood as it lands, ruining the last bit of stage and landing on the opposite side, Keyleth, it's your turn.

MARISHA: Are there any trees nearby?

TRAVIS: Wouldn't mind turning into that mist right now.

MARISHA: No shit– I didn't learn it! Go ahead.

MATT: There is a tree. There's a tree about 100 feet in that direction.

MARISHA: 100 feet?!

LAURA: Or go inside.

MARISHA: All right, everyone's around me, more or less?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I slam my staff on the ground and I cast Anti-Life Shell and I say, (shouts) everyone in the shell– we're running!

MATT: Okay. How big is the radius of the shell?

MARISHA: It's not that big. It's ten feet radius, so you guys are going to have to get close to me.

MARISHA: Ten feet.

LIAM: That's enough for all of us.

MARISHA: That's enough for all of us if we gather.

MATT: That's your radius there.

SAM: I'm right there already!

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Pike and Scanlan are in it, everyone else needs to get close.

MATT: Yep, all right, and you're going to stay there? Wait for everyone to gather to you, or are you just going to run and everyone else has to catch up? Which, if everyone else makes a dash movement, they could probably get to you next round.

TRAVIS: Yeah, just go.

MARISHA: All right, yeah, I'll do like 20 feet, not my full 30 but enough to where people– no, fuck it, I'll do 30 feet.

MATT: Okay, so you're 30 feet up to the edge there. All right, that ends your turn. Vax.

LIAM: I click my boots, and I– Shit, where is everybody?

LAURA: Running towards Keyleth.

LIAM: I yank Trinket by the fur on his butt and say, come on Trinket! And then start running backwards and grabbing at my sister's cloak as I go towards Keyleth.

MATT: Okay, with the boots of haste you get up within this area pretty easy. Trinket turns and sees you run and looks over towards you, which, it's your next turn.

LAURA: Okay. I don't know why we're not running inside, instead of away. Are we running?

MARISHA: We're running to the tree. So we can Transport Via Plants, was the thought.

LAURA: Got it. Okay, I'm going to shout out in Draconic, and I'm going to say: Raishan! Is that his name?

MATT: Raishan is what it seemed to refer to itself as.

LAURA: Raishan!

MARISHA: You got it, you got it!

LAURA: So sorry for whatever pissed you off so bad–

SAM: All right, you had it.

LAURA: Your fight's with us, not with this city. Leave the townspeople alone. And I take off.

MATT: Okay. I imagine you tell Trinket to do the same?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, of course.

MATT: So you rush up. Trinket comes and gathers off to the side there–

MARISHA: He's going to kill us, yeah.

LAURA: Oh! Oh! Can I cast something?

MATT: We'll say, you are now there, for those who want to see there, technically, there off to the side.

LAURA: Can I cast something?

MATT: To get over there would take both– it would take a dash action, so, no. Unless it's a bonus action, then you could've, like Hunter's Mark if you want to do something like that.

LAURA: I guess I'll do Hunter's Mark on him. I was going to do Protection From Poison, so I might not full dash.

MATT: Yeah, we'll say– up to you.

MARISHA: Is that a radius thing or just for yourself?

MATT: What do you want to do? Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: I'll Hunter's Mark. I'll just dash. I'm just stupid.

LIAM: Matt, probably too late, but can I retcon– say I'm holding my attack, since I didn't do anything? Fine if not, I just thought–

MATT: With the haste you could've gotten there. I'd say sure. So we'll let you have it. All right, holding your attack for what?

LIAM: If it bears down on us.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan.

SAM: Me? I'm going to–

LAURA: (gasps) What about Gilmore!? Where is he? He was right next to us.

MATT: I know.

TRAVIS: Just keep– it's not about Gilmore right now– it's Scanlan's turn.

SAM: Where is he?

MATT: You can make a perception check.

SAM: 12.

MATT: 12? You don't see Gilmore anywhere. You look about the bodies. You know the color of his robe, but you don't see it anywhere on the ground. In the chaos you really have no idea where he is.

SAM: Okay, I will– (sings) Bigby's Hand! Shamone! I will Bigby's Hand and put it right in front of him and– wow, it's so tiny compared to him!

(laughter)

SAM: I will use it as a Interposing Hand, blocking him from approaching us. And I will use my movement to climb into the circle of good.

MATT: Okay, you can get there. Okay, that ends your turn.

SAM: And I'll– shit.

MATT: Want to inspire somebody?

SAM: I guess, I mean, who's near him? Just Grog right?

MATT: Right now, it's Grog, Percy and Pike are all still out right now.

SAM: They'll get away right, they're going to run? You're going to run, right? They'll be fine. All right. I'll inspire Grog by saying, you're a magnificent, handsome bastard, don't die!

MATT: All right. You take a d10 inspiration die.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MATT: Pike is going to rush right here and is going to attempt to cast Mass Cure Wounds. Mass Cure Wounds as a 6th-level spell, so that's 4d8 plus five. Six creatures in a 30 foot radius. So that'll be– all of you. She's not going to do it to herself. Or, she can't do it to Grog, so she can get–

SAM: Grog, did you get hit?

MATT: She can get everyone but Trinket, but Trinket seems fine, so– that is seven, eight, 12, 15 plus five– 20 points healed to all of you guys.

SAM: Great, that'll help.

MATT: Except for Grog. That's going to be her turn, and she just moves into the circle there with the rest of her movement. That brings us to Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look for Gilmore.

MATT: Perception check.

TALIESIN: What!

LAURA: What happened to you, Percy?

TALIESIN: I don't know. Nine.

MATT: In this chaos, you have no idea where he is, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold my attack for if the dragon comes towards us and I'm going to run into the–

MATT: You rush in. all right, at the end of your turn, all the rest of these guys just go running. Running as far away as possible, getting up, going at full sprint all over. The guards are trying to usher people out of the way. You have crying mothers who can't find their kid–

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: You have absolute chaos, and at this point your hear in the distance a large explosion, as you see a rolling cloud of fire rise up in the distance over the mountain and the rest of regular Emon, surrounding the Cloudtop District. This guy over here's going to run as well. Beginning of that turn, Grog you're up.

TRAVIS: I'm booking ass.

MATT: Okay, with a dash you get over to there.

SAM: Don't worry, my magical hand is there. (laughs)

MATT: Raishan now is going to move over here.

SAM: Hey, but, I try to stop him!

MATT: The hand is going to try to–

SAM: Got a strength of 26.

MARISHA: That's awesome.

MATT: Interposing Hand just gives you cover against the target, and it can't move the hand's space if its strength is four, so it's not going to move through the space, it's going to try and move to the side. So instead of going after you guys, the hand just moves with it and keeps it in between, but it stays approximately here. It then blows towards this crowd here, just catching Grog in the corner. So Grog, I need you to make another constitution save.

SAM: With inspiration.

MATT: With inspiration, if you'd like, if you need it.

TRAVIS: (mutters) I'm okay. 26.

MATT: 26. You succeed, so you take we'll say 33 points of poison damage, halved, to 17. All right. The rest of these guys except for– Oh, no, Grog, no! Grog, no! Those guys all survive, though they're coughing and trying to get away. This brings us to end of his turn. At this point in time you look up and see (whoosh whoosh) another set of wings come slamming down onto this side.

TRAVIS: Holy shit, look at the size of that thing. What the hell?

SAM: (laughing) What is that thing?

MATT: As it lands, it looks down at the group and then runs up the side of a building's rooftop up here.

MARISHA: Oh, Jesus Christ!

LAURA: So we're totally getting in the tree, I know it, we're going to make it.

SAM: (laughs) The tree has been evaporated.

MATT: So, the rest of you guys, are you all moving as a group forward?

SAM: Oh, hells yes!

MATT: Okay, you all go rushing– You all go dashing forward. At full speed, aside from Vax, who can get to the tree this turn, the rest of you are going to get halfway there.

MARISHA: Fuck!

MATT: So we'll say for the purposes of this movement, we'll move it backward.

MARISHA: There's not a closer bush? Nothing closer we can jump in?

MATT: No, not currently. the closest large enough plant to use this ability–

SAM: Me and Pike get there, because I Dimension Door us.

MATT: Okay. Actually, technically Grog can get there too, and Vax and Pike and Scanlan. You guys all get there. The rest of you are all inside the Anti-Life Shell as you're running.

LIAM: I'm not going to leave the group, I'm going to pace with them.

MATT: As you're pushing forward, the large black dragon is just toying with you– it's climbing across the rooftops, and just watching you as you run, and you hear it chuckling under its breath– (menacing chuckle, whoosh, impact).

TALIESIN: Okay, is he taking to the air?

MATT: He takes to the air and jumps to another rooftop.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try as I'm running– do I have enough time to try and take a shot?

MATT: You can, yeah.

TALIESIN: Am I going to be able to keep up with the group?

MATT: Probably not.

TALIESIN: Never mind. Damn it, never mind.

MATT: So you're like, “shit,” and you just keep running. It now jumped over onto this rooftop and Raishan has moved up toward the center and making its way towards you. At this moment, another burst of fire over the wall much closer goes (boom) and swooping out of it, out of the flames, you see the largest red dragon you've ever experienced come swooshing through the flames, rises up past. The two other dragons almost lower their heads as it passes over.

SAM: Maybe they just want their gold back?

MATT: (whoosh) It swoops past without even noticing you all, slams onto the top of the palace, causing part of the entire throne room glass-domed structure to (shattering noise) shatter and break inward before it turns around and plants itself outward. You've seen ancient dragons– this is large for an ancient dragon. In fact, by its sheer size, you feel like you may have encountered this individual before when you were passing through the plane of fire.

LAURA: That fuck that was like the biggest dragon ever ever?

SAM: I don't remember that.

MARISHA: The guy we missed because we laid low from him and he flew over and we were like: 'don't move,' and we missed him?

MATT: As it lands, the two other dragons take a step back and recoil and snarl and you hear this voice come just tearing through the center of the Cloudtop District, saying, “Move on, Umbrasyl. I claim this as my domain now. The rest of you have a task to complete. Go! I shall remain and set a new dominion of the Chroma Conclave.”

SAM: (whispering) Chroma Conclave, that's so cool!

MATT: At which point the two other dragons snap at each other and they both– the black one just takes off in this distance. The green dragon stalks for a second and then (snarls) angrily turns around and climbs back onto the top of the wall and then flies off into the distance as well, both of them heading westward.

LAURA: West.

SAM: Oh, we're okay! Hey guys, it's fine.

MATT: You watch as they curve around and start heading east.

LAURA: East?

MATT: At this point, you guys have now reached the outskirts of the tree and you can see now this large red dragon has planted itself–

LAURA: He died! He died!

MATT: He's fine, he flew off, it's fine. Just begins breathing flames into the center of the Cloudtop. As you can briefly see javelins being thrown, bolts being shot, and you hear a wave of screams in the distance as it rains death through the center of Emon. You're at the tree, Keyleth. Where are you going? Where are you going?

MARISHA: Where are we going, what are we doing? Do we want go back to the keep?

MARISHA: What do we do?

LAURA: To the keep. Get underground.

TRAVIS: We need that skull.

MARISHA: What?!

TRAVIS: The skull grants a wish.

MARISHA: Grog!

SAM: Just get to the keep– we can talk about it there.

MARISHA: I cast Transport Via Plants on the fucking tree!

MATT: The tree– opens up and a small oval, almond-shaped portal and you can see, it's in the intensity, it's partially unstable but it's keeping itself clean. You guys each dive in as the Anti-Life shell vanishes.

LAURA: I shout: Gilmore! Before I go though.

MATT: Okay, and you come leaping through the center of the tree as it closed behind you. And we're going to end tonight's session on that point!

LIAM: Thought we were going to be starting a brand-new Shadowrun campaign next week!

SAM: You know, maybe the warden of that jail was a dragon! And he invited his friends to find us.

LAURA: Did this all happen because we went back to General Krieg's place? Did we kill the entire city because we went back to General Krieg's place?

SAM: But think of the 4,000 gold we got! (laughs)

LAURA: Or maybe this was a long time coming and it just happened to time up.

SAM: We'll find out.

MARISHA: I'm hoping it's the first, I'm hoping it's the first.

MATT: We shall see if all of these interests come to reveal themselves in the future–

LIAM: That was frightening, man.

MATT: – for future episodes of Critical Role.

MARISHA: What did we do?

TRAVIS: You just massacred people. You just committed genocide.

MATT: I just destroyed something that I built. It's a really weird feeling.

LAURA: You destroyed your whole city, Matt.

MARISHA: The whole city, everyone's dead.

TRAVIS: Well done!

SAM: Not everyone, just a couple of dozen people. And Gilmore.

LAURA: This is Act Two of the game, of the video game that you're playing.

MARISHA: Holy fuck.

MATT: So with that, folks, as it closes on 11 o'clock, we have to get ourselves a rest for the evening. We hope you've enjoyed tonight's game. I forgot to announce earlier because I was feeling all tense and– yeah– but we have a winner of our initial drawing.

TALIESIN: It was a thing, wasn't it?

MATT: Earl Grey Austin was the winner tonight of our Critical Role package. So congratulations to you, buddy

TALIESIN: Someone won tonight! That's so nice.

LAURA: Someone won.

MATT: All right, well guys, have a wonderful night, thank you all for watching, we'll see you next Thursday.

MARISHA: I'm going to have an aneurysm. 

Part I

MATT: All right, guys, so welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role. So to get you up to speed real fast: the group Vox Machina, after finishing their foray in Whitestone, finding a member of the council, Riskel Daxio, was a cult member for this entity called Vecna, bringing him to justice and executing him in the throne room of the palace of Emon, they discovered during the search the traveling troupe of Dr. Dranzel's performance troupe, which Scanlan used to be a part of. During this time, they hatched a plan to have Vox Machina seek this house that had fallen into disarray, and the owner disappeared for a while, that may contain some goods. The party went and investigated. They had previously been in the house and were curious as to where it stands at this point in time, especially if more people are disappearing into it. Upon going into what was once General Krieg's house where they once fought a blue dragon, they discovered the corpse of Krieg, long-buried from the collapse of the cavern and picked apart by some other large clawed creature. And immediately got into some sort of a fight with a purple worm and a frost worm that were essentially battling over whatever it was that was moving in that tunnel that seemed to be nice and tasty. These adolescent worm creatures, not even fully grown, proved a nice little challenge, but the party managed to succeed in escaping after killing them, before the mother showed up. They returned to Emon, managed to help Scanlan's now-discovered daughter, Kaylie, out of a little pinch in getting imprisoned after she'd gotten into a major bar brawl. And the party returned to their keep, where they were notified that Uriel, the Sovereign of Tal'Dorei and the city state of Emon, had an announcement to make in the Cloudtop District. So gathered Gilmore, gathered the rest of the party, and everyone went to the Cloudtop District around noon at the presentational stage– not at noon, at dusk. Sorry, the other one. So, at which point Uriel announced that he felt he was no longer a worthy leader or ruler of this entire realm he has under his watch and is deciding to step down. During this announcement, however, a number of strange entities came through the clouds in the sky as a series of chromatic ancient dragons swooped in and began to destroy the city of Emon. Many of the townsfolk gathered at that square were immediately killed. The party as well as a few straggling survivors ran away as both the large, gargantuan black and green dragon begin to chase you down. Right before they honed in to pick you off, an even larger ancient red dragon shoved them off to head east to continue their plot after slamming down into the center of Emon and claiming it as his own domain. The party escaped via the druid's Transport Via Plants spell and just stepped through the tree to land in the center of their keep of Greyskull. So now we pick up where that left off. So as you all come rushing through the other side of the transport spell, each one of you comes stumbling out into the center of the temple to Sarenrae that's constructed on the base floor of your keep. The sheer intensity and force that pushes you all through one after another, some of you end up tripping and catching yourself, but nevertheless you all make it through safe and sound before the large tree trunk behind you, the portal, snaps shut, the magic exhausted. The adrenaline still pumping in your head, you're all still thinking over and processing what exactly had just happened and what it means.

TRAVIS: Are we all here?

MARISHA: All those people.

TALIESIN: Yes? Yes?

TRAVIS: Is anyone hurt?

TALIESIN: That's a good question.

MARISHA: Can we see anything from here?

MATT: Looking around right now, you have the stained glass of the complex. The keep seems to be in order. From this perspective, you don't see anything because the city is on the opposite side of the keep. This portion of the temple is actually facing southward.

TALIESIN: I suppose I'd like to get a vantage point, to see what we can see. Is there any way to– I think we all took damage. I think we're all hurt.

TRAVIS: We're all hurt a little bit.

LIAM: Pike, heal?

ASHLEY: Yeah, let me do some healing.

MATT: Pike, be aware, as part–

ASHLEY: I don't know where I'm at.

MATT: Yeah, I'll let you know where you are at. You cast, let's see, you cast Heal once, which I believe was your 6th-level spell, and then you cast Mass Cure Wounds, so a 5th-level spell. So you've cast a 6th and a 5th.

ASHLEY: One 6th and one 5th?

MATT: Correct.

ASHLEY: Okay. All right, and then healthwise, where am I at? Went down 66?

MATT: Healthwise, you were down 66 and then you healed up, I don't remember the exact number. It was like 24. We'll go with 24. It's fine.

ASHLEY: Okay guys, let's do a Mass Cure Wounds then at fourth level.

MATT: Okay. Which one is this? Are you casting Cure Wounds?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: On who?

ASHLEY: A Mass Cure Wounds, sorry.

MATT: Mass Cure Wounds is a 5th-level spell.

ASHLEY: How low is everybody?

TRAVIS: I'm all right.

LIAM: I'm all right.

LAURA: 43, but if we can take a short rest, we can roll some dice.

MARISHA: I'm at 32, so same thing.

TALIESIN: 57.

TRAVIS: Short rest?

ASHLEY: Short rest.

MARISHA: We should get inside, anyways.

TALIESIN: Let's get inside. I want to see if I can get a vantage from the top.

LIAM: I think in the short term, we need to take care of two things: one, get a vantage point and see how the keep is and what we can see from above. We also need to get the staff out of here, we need to send them away immediately.

TALIESIN: Do we send them away or do we send them down below? Like for shelter?

LAURA: We don't need them running out.

TALIESIN: It's safer than running around outside, that's where I want to end up.

LAURA: Send them below.

LIAM: Out of the city, though, into the wild?

LAURA: If we need to, we can bring them through the portal into Whitestone.

MARISHA: We don't know what all is safe right now.

LIAM: I'm all right, so I'm going to go find the staff and herd them down below and tell them what has happened.

TALIESIN: You can put them in my workshop. Actually–

MARISHA: Why don't we all head down there?

TALIESIN: Yes, let's head down to my workshop because I have to unlock it anyway.

MATT: Pike, are you not casting Cure Mass Wounds? You have one more 5th-level spell, so you could do if you wanted.

ASHLEY: Yeah, let me go ahead and do it.

MATT: Okay. So I believe that's 3d8 plus five, unless I'm mistaken.

LIAM: This one's on everyone?

MATT: This was on, this would be on up to six creatures, so 3d8 plus five. Well, everybody but one.

LAURA: Everybody but Scanlan.

MATT: Sure, everybody but Scanlan, we'll put it there.

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: Plus five?

ASHLEY: That's plus five.

MATT: Okay, so everyone heals 18 hit points.

ASHLEY: Rolled a little low.

MATT: That's all right. Okay, you're heading off–

LIAM: I'm going to start moving through the entire place, I'm going to start at the front gate and see if anybody's outside.

MATT: As you head into the foyer, the first thing you see is Laina currently panicking about, running around with Erwin falling behind, trying to calm her down and going, “Laina, it's all right “calm down.” And Laina is like, “I don't know what to do, I, I–” She turns around and sees you, “Oh, Master, Master Vax.”

LIAM: It's actually not all right, we need to gather everyone right now, quickly, I'll explain after we've gotten everyone in the keep. We need to go to Percival's workshop, can you help me with that?

MATT: “We can do that, we have a problem–” She points out. The front of the keep is currently opened, the doors and the gate's there and you can hear what sounds like a cluster of very loud voices, shouting and screaming and yelling over each other.

TRAVIS: Outside of the keep?

LIAM: But I'm on my own, right?

MATT: You are, yeah.

MARISHA: What are the voices speaking?

MATT: Are you following him to the foyer? Currently only Vax is.

LIAM: Go to Percival's workshop, go, I will handle it.

MARISHA: I figured we'd all be moving outside, at least.

MATT: All right, as you guys move into the foyer to follow, you see Vax having this conversation with Laina. She and Erwin go head back down, to head down to the workshop. What are you doing?

LIAM: I'm going to go stealth toward the door to see what the hell is going on out there.

MATT: Okay. Roll stealth check.

LIAM: Yeah, it's a 29.

MATT: All right, good to know. All right, so as you go to the door and look out, you can see, along the top wall there are three figures. Takes you a moment to focus, and you realize that it is Kendrick, who's one of your general guards you keep around, as well as Cordell and Shayne. All three of them have crossbows ready, and they're yelling to each other and aiming them over the wall towards the front. However, what you can hear from this point is a chorus of 20, 30 or more voices muffled from the other side of the wall.

LIAM: I'm going to start running up towards them. I'm going to join them on the wall.

MATT: Okay, so there is a ladder at the side, and you climb up the ladder, and as you get closer, you hear people shouting, different voices going, “Let us in, let us in or we'll die!” Voices going, “What are you doing, you going to leave us out here?!” Other people are screaming, you hear crying children, you hear people shrieking.

LIAM: How many people am I seeing down there?

MATT: Well, as you get up to the top and crest over, you can see the three guards are all yelling at each other and yelling over, “We can't, we can't do anything right now, we're waiting for "th–” They look over and see you come over the edge, and you can see there's probably close to 50 or so people that are all pressed up against the gates to the inside of your keep, that are all shouting to be let in.

LIAM: If I look past, do I see anyone else coming towards the keep? Is it just a cluster and that's it, or–

MATT: You can see people that are fleeing from the town in little bits, two or three at a time, trails of individuals that are just now managing to make it outside of the city of Emon itself. Some of them are heading out into the distance, getting far away as possible. A few more are heading towards the keep, and you gather that this crowd has been gathering here for the last few minutes, at the very least.

LIAM: All right, slapping my hand on Kendrick's shoulder. We are going to let these people in. The city has come under attack, everything is fucked beyond belief. There are at least four large, old dragons attacking the city, and these people need to come inside. I don't know what we're going to do with them, but we're going to bring them in now. And you and I are going to wait by the gate for those stragglers to come in. The rest of you, take them inside, join the others.

MATT: They all look at each other. Cordell gives you a nod, “Right, sir, we'll open the gate, hold on.” And you guys all, are you heading out to the courtyard as well? Or are you staying inside the keep?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, we see them.

MATT: So you come out and see this happening and hear them shouting at the top of the wall.

MARISHA: Keyleth stands in the middle of the foyer, unable to move.

TALIESIN: Keep them out of my workshop, but put them into the spare rooms and anywhere we have room.

LAURA: Maybe the cathedral?

TALIESIN: The cathedral is a great idea.

MATT: At this point, you hear this strange high-pitched whine sound. Vax, as you look up, you can see there are these columns of smoke that are billowing out of the city in the distance as mass areas are burning and smoldering. You see coming out of one of the clouds something spinning slowly towards you, and you look up and see it's one of the skyships from the Cloudtop District, one half of it currently in flames.

LAURA: Inside, now!

LIAM: I scream out, get the gates open now!

MATT: At which point, you can see now Shayne and Cordell are pulling on the ratchets, pulling the chains up as fast as they can while putting their eyes up and seeing this as it careens in your direction.

TALIESIN: I'm running up to the tower as quickly as I can.

LIAM: And I'm fireman's pole down the ladder, down one side of the ladder to get to the gate.

MATT: Okay. The gate opens a little bit, enough to get one or two people through, and begins to push through, and you can see now people are yelling in pain as they're being crushed, as the whole mass of them are pushing through the small opening.

LIAM: I scream out: if you rush, you will die!

MATT: It doesn't seem to be affecting anybody, unfortunately. There's this inlaid fear, this animalistic need to survive.

LAURA: I start to grab people arms and pulling them through and helping people get through safely.

MATT: At this point, the skyship has passed overhead, missing the top of the keep and the highest walls by about 40 or so feet. For a few seconds of silence, and you hear impact, shaking the ground for a few seconds. Not far from here, you can see another blast of red fire and a couple of sparks of arcane energy that arc out, as another column of smoke south of you begins to pour up into the sky.

MARISHA: Feeling that, I snap out of it and run to the south exit of the castle to look for the explosion.

MATT: Okay. As you start rushing in that direction, to the south side of the castle, looking back to where the skyship came through, you can see the smoke parts once more, and you see unfurling from within two large white wings bearing down, and you can see as it swoops down, there are groups of people that are rushing 100, 200, 300 feet away, that are pulling themselves out of the ravine that sits between the south walls of Emon and the north walls of your keep. As they're pouring through the mud and the stream there, it's about four or five feet deep, it swoops down and unleashes a blast of freezing cold energy that freezes that whole section of the river solid and every person in that vicinity as well. Locked in place.

MARISHA: Does Keyleth see all of this?

MATT: You don't see this because you're inside the wall. You see it come down and swoop by. You see it circle around. You, however, have a good view of this, right as you're about to go down the wall on the ladder.

TALIESIN: Vex, I need you on the roof.

LAURA: All right. I run up.

MATT: As you go running up, you guys see now it circles back around and its wings tilt to one side as it begins to make its way towards the keep for a second sweep. I would like everyone to roll initiative.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we got to get down.

MARISHA: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: You want to go first?

MATT: Put you there. Percy and Vex, you guys are up on the wall, technically, right?

TALIESIN: Up here, so we can get down real quick.

MATT: Okay, yeah, so the ladder is there.

TALIESIN: Well, shouldn't there be a door that leads to that anyway?

MATT: The way this is designed is it's a ladder getting up and down.

TALIESIN: Okay. That'll do.

MATT: Did you still go down the ladder, or are you staying up top here?

LIAM: No, I already said I went down.

MATT: Okay, so as soon as you see it swoop overhead, you come back down to the bottom there. Scanlan is currently inside for the sake of this, and may come out here in a moment, he's figuring out what's going on. Grog, where are you?

TRAVIS: I guess I was out in the courtyard, trying to help the cattle come in.

MATT: All right, so let's go ahead and place some cattle.

LAURA: Jesus.

TRAVIS: The door to get back inside is located where?

LAURA: Yeah, where's the cathedral at? Is that what the other entry is?

MATT: This is the entrance to your actual keep, there. Essentially, these two sections here are the doors that lead through to the interior. People are pouring through at this point, trying to get through as fast as possible. Whole cluster of them.

TALIESIN: Got to get that thing finished.

LAURA: There's more on the outside there? Is that what you're putting there?

MATT: Pike, you are where?

ASHLEY: Yeah. Somewhere around there.

MATT: In the center, keeping watch there, all right, and Trinket is with you– or Trinket can't make it up the ladder, so Trinket is staying in the courtyard, probably keeping close to Pike right there. All righty, so. Initiative. 25 to 20.

LIAM: 24.

MARISHA: 22.

TALIESIN: 27. 26, 26.

MATT: What did you get, Keyleth?

MARISHA: 22.

MATT: All right. Who got 20 to 15?

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15. Pike, what did you get?

ASHLEY: Three!

MATT: Three. Grog?

TRAVIS: Nine.

ASHLEY: I can do some cleanup.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Three!

ASHLEY: Matt, real quick.

TRAVIS: He said 'yeah', you can go ahead.

ASHLEY: Oh, I think I do have a sixth level because I think that sixth level was used for Liam with the worm, and then we came back to the keep to rest.

MATT: That's right, that's correct, you do have a sixth level spell, still. Yes, thank you for the reminder. Good on you. All right, and so here we have Cordell, we have Shayne, and we have Kendrick right there on the top, as well. Top, currently the dragon is about, I'd say, 120 feet off this direction. You're up first, Percy.

TALIESIN: Does it seem like the dragon has noticed us?

MATT: The dragon at the moment is currently seeing the keep. It doesn't notice anyone in particular, it just sees a swarm of people trying to get inside, and it's circling around to try and do another dive attack.

TALIESIN: How dumb am I?

MATT: That's up to you, buddy.

TALIESIN: Okay, cool.

LAURA: Don't be real dumb because I'm standing next to you.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to pull out Bad News, and I'm going to make a targeted shot at its wings and try to put a hole into its wings.

MATT: Okay, go for it, go ahead and take the shot.

TRAVIS: What the fuck. Come on, golden snitch.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Get the hell out of here.

TALIESIN: I'm back, baby.

MATT: Go ahead and roll some damage on that.

LIAM: A little, tiny ray of sunshine.

MATT: 4d12 for the hit on that, and then what's the save, to see if it can maintain height?

TALIESIN: It's a constitution saving throw.

MATT: All right– (laughs) It rolled a four.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MATT: It is plus 14 to its constitution saving throw, so it's 18. What's the DC on that?

TALIESIN: Eight plus my proficiency mod plus my dexterity mod– So, I don't know– six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 18.

MATT: So it just makes the save.

TALIESIN: Hold on, is that right? It's proficiency bonus.

MATT: Proficiency bonus plus four.

TALIESIN: Plus dexterity, which is six.

MATT: Six, which is 18, and it just makes the save.

TALIESIN: Stupid dragon.

MATT: Just makes its save, but still does damage, go ahead and roll that.

TRAVIS: At least you hit it, you got to bleed it a bit. Longshot.

TALIESIN: 27 points of damage. Let's see, one more, yeah, one more shot at the wings just to see if I can take it down. Make it.

MATT: Okay, the second attack is reload, third attack. Another grit point to try and take it down, go for it. Roll for the attack.

TALIESIN: 25.

MATT: 25 hits. It rolled a three, that is 17.

TALIESIN: (laughs) Drop, fucker!

MATT: Terrible, terrible– All right, so that will effectively reduce its speed, or its height, by what?

TALIESIN: Height by 20 feet? And I imagine that would throw it a bit.

MATT: It might.

LIAM: Now it's angry.

TALIESIN: And let's do some damage. And damage is 20 points of damage.

MATT: 20, nice. All right. 27 points of damage on the round.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold my movement until it's so close that I want– I'm going to hold my movement until–

MATT: You can hold an action, you can't really hold movement.

TALIESIN: Okay, then I'm going to use my bonus action to turn to Vex and: fight or flight? All right, you can answer next turn, yeah.

MATT: However, as the first bullet hits, you see it takes the hit in the wing, but it hits the muscle on the edge. As it goes into its glide to head down, you fire into the other wing, this time blowing a hole through the leather flap, and you can see it lose about 20 feet and is actually now skidding towards the roof of the keep.

LAURA: Oh jeez.

TALIESIN: That was a good plan?

MATT: Okay, that ends your turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm going to dive by that tree.

MATT: Right here?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I'm going to hold my attack until it is on the ground or low to the ground.

MATT: All right, got it. So you're holding your attack if you can. All right, cool. Keyleth.

MARISHA: Where am I in regards to everyone else?

MATT: You are right here, because you were heading to the south wall when all this went down.

MARISHA: Oh, okay.

MATT: This is the north direction this way. It came this way, swooped past, circled around, and now it's coming back from this direction.

MARISHA: Okay. I want to use my movement to get under that tree.

MATT: Under this tree or that tree?

MARISHA: Yeah, let me– No, towards the entrance– heading for cover.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Here.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you're behind the tree.

MARISHA: And now I'm going to cast Fog Cloud at fourth level, which makes it a radius of 80 feet.

MATT: 80-foot radius?

MARISHA: If you cast it at higher levels, it goes up by 20 feet for each level higher you cast it. So I'm casting it at fourth level. Okay, so I go all Storm for a second, get all misty-eyed, and I want to create a nice low-level fog. Across the whole castle.

MATT: Okay. Okay, so heavily obscured. Heavily obscured will give everyone a ¾ cover bonus– Let me see what heavily obscured would actually do specifically, to be sure real fast, pardon me.

TRAVIS: I don't even know what ¾ cover bonus is.

MATT: It's when you're blocked by something, it gives you a bonus to–

TRAVIS: Never happens to me. I'm usually a ¾ cover bonus.

MATT: All right. It blocks vision entirely, creatures suffer from the blinded condition. So everyone in the entire Keep is now blinded.

MARISHA: Well, I want to make it like a fog cloud over top, so we're blinded by–

MATT: So it's above you guys, is what you're saying?

MARISHA: Yeah, so we're blocked from the dragon as we flee. I hope you guys weren't wanting to shoot at it, by the way.

TALIESIN: Well, we're above it, the cloud would be between–

MATT: The cloud now is– encompasses this whole area here. Which means the only people that are affected by it are the people at the top of this tower right now. Got it. Was that your turn? Your movement?

MARISHA: That's it.

MATT: Cool, stay there?

MARISHA: Well, I moved.

MATT: Right, you moved there. Are you done with your turn? Okay. So now it is the white dragon's turn. The white dragon, as it comes down, you don't see it anymore because the fog cloud obscures it, but you suddenly hear the sound of a heavy object slamming into stone, and the cracking and breaking of stone against the surface, as the dragon has now, due to the fall of height, slammed into the top of the Keep and is tearing its underside against the roof. Who knows the state that the roof of the Keep is going to be in right now, but because of that, I'm going to ahead and–

LAURA: We'll just have Riskel fix it– Oh, wait.

MATT: Well, he was the overseer. He actually had somebody else build the actual thing by hand.

LAURA: Oh, okay. Well, good.

MATT: So it suffers 14 points of damage–

LAURA: That's it?

MATT: Yeah. It's dragonhide, man.

TRAVIS: What about all the spires that are up there, that have anti-dragon poison?

MATT: Yeah. That was a dream, unfortunately. However, it does somewhat emerge– you can see its form somewhat as it comes down in this direction, ending its movement here.

TRAVIS: Oh no.

MARISHA: Wait, it skids to a halt right there?

MATT: It's just the fog cloud. As it slams into the keep and tumbles off the top of it and catches itself in the air (wingbeats).

TRAVIS: How high above us is it?

MATT: It is currently 20 feet above you guys. For its turn, it is going to pick a random direction to try and blast its cold breath at. So let me go ahead and roll the direction on this.

LAURA: Because it's all covered in fog?

MATT: Yeah, it can't see right now. Currently it's obscured. Oh, hold on! But it has blindsight 60 feet, so it has no effect on him, unfortunately. So as it stops in the air, it still manages to use its sense of smell and the general atmospheric ability to sense what's around it. It seem to move its head and search–

LIAM: Can I attack right now? I was holding my attack.

MATT: You can. Now, what's the range on your daggers?

LIAM: 60, because I'm Sharpshooter.

MATT: 30, 40, 50, 60– it's just at the cusp. Like just barely cusp, but yeah, you can get your attack.

LIAM: So I'm going before him, and it's a surprise attack because I'm hidden and I'm going first–

MATT: Yes, you're essentially interrupting his attack because the moment he came into range–

LIAM: So it's an advantage and it is an automatic crit?

MATT: It's not a automatic crit, it's not surprised.

LIAM: It's not surprised?

MATT: No, it know you guys are there.

LIAM: Even hiding behind a tree? All right.

MATT: A surprise generally means that it has absolutely no idea that you are there or there's any sort of threat from you.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

LIAM: All right. And then the second dagger I throw– I can only throw a second one– is also a 24.

MATT: Both hit.

LIAM: So the first one is double dice, so eight plus– 14, 15, 18, 23, 25. Double dice is 50 plus seven is– Yeah, 57 for the first.

MATT: Ooh, nice.

LIAM: And the second one goes bink. That is a ten.

MATT: Ten, all right. 57 points of damage, that's– Is that straight-up dice rolls? That's crazy.

LIAM: That's Sneak Attack, I've gone up a level to 13–

MATT: Right, so it's a d6 or 7d6.

LIAM: 7d6– Oh, wait.

MATT: It's not doubled, though.

LIAM: Sorry, sorry, sorry. 25 plus seven is 32. Sorry, 32.

MATT: 32, there you go, I was like, that's really high for a non-crit.

LIAM: The second one was ten. 32, ten.

MATT: So 42 points of damage. Still not shabby by any means. Gotcha, as you chuck both daggers in the direction where you can see as it's now at the very bottom of the fog cloud. You have enough visual to strike towards it without missing and both daggers sink into the bottom of the creature. One of them you know was a nice, impactful wounding for any other creature, but it doesn't seem to have taken much issue with the impact of the blade. Appear at your side again. That ends your reaction. Now Vorugal is going to go. Looking at the area of most density–

LIAM: What was his name again?

MATT: Ah, you will know that shortly. The white dragon. The white dragon rears up in the fog cloud and dips down a little bit, (exhales) outside of the fog cloud, hitting everyone in this vicinity here. That's going to be Grog, Trinket, and everyone here over. I would like all of you to make a constitution saving throw. Well, I'm not going to roll that many dice, I'm going to use my dice roller.

ASHLEY: Come on, guys.

MARISHA: “I'm not going to roll that many dice.” Always a good sign.

LIAM: Grog's about to lose ten percent of his hit points.

MATT: I don't have enough d6s, it's 16d6. Or sorry, 16d8, my apologies. All right, so that comes to– Grog, what's your–

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: 25, that's a success. What's Trinket's?

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15? All right, that is 63 points of cold damage to Trinket.

LAURA: Trinket is unconscious.

MATT: All right. Trinket actually freezes in place. Now you can see the armor itself has about an inch-thick layer of ice as currently the eyes go dull as unconsciousness takes the bear, but unable to show or reveal that. Grog, you take half that, so you are at– you take 32 points of cold damage. Let me roll some saves here. Average saves– Okay, so these four here survive, the rest of these are all entirely wiped out. And you can see now, the people that were rushing in are now rushing away from the keep. The rest are getting the fuck out of Dodge. So yeah, that's going to be the end of the white dragon's turn. That brings us to Vex. You're up in the fog cloud right now, so you have no visual range on the creature. You hear all these screams and hear the blast.

LAURA: I can't see it?

MATT: No, unfortunately, the fog cloud is just high enough where it covers this area for you guys. However, you could jump off if you wanted to, make an acrobatics roll and then maybe do your attack afterwards. If you wanted to try that, your call.

LAURA: Wouldn't I still be in the fog cloud if I was on the ground?

MATT: No, the fog cloud is elevated up here. It starts here and then goes upward. Keyleth created it in the air. You guys are at the base of it right now.

LAURA: So I can use my movement to jump down?

MATT: Yes, if you want to.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to fucking Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: You can't see him right now, unfortunately.

LAURA: I'm going to jump fucking down on the ground.

MATT: So you jump. Go ahead and make an acrobatics check. As you leap off the highest part of the wall of your Keep, all of a sudden the fog dissipates and you see the ground rushing up towards you.

LAURA: 14.

MATT: 14. You manage to catch yourself. You aren't knocked prone, but you do suffer five points of damage from the fall. But you catch yourself (grunts), get up, and now you can see at the very, very base of the fog cloud, the head peeking though and the wings occasionally (wingbeats) from out underneath, and you have visual on the dragon.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. And I'm going to shoot him through the Sky Sentinel.

MATT: You already used the Sky Sentinel if I recall against the green dragon, didn't you?

LAURA: On the worm.

MATT: Was it the worm? Okay.

LAURA: And I multiclassed today, so I'm a rogue, so I get Sneak Attack on this.

MATT: It currently does not have–

LAURA: Does it know that– does it see me?

MATT: You haven't tried to stealth, so technically yes. As soon as you jumped off and land, and hurt yourself and your ankle, you look up and it sees you.

LAURA: Never fucking mind. Balls, all kind of balls around here right now. The first attack is 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

LAURA: The second attack is 24.

MATT: Both hit.

LAURA: The third attack is 16.

MATT: 16 misses.

LAURA: Okay, so. Let me double-check. An extra d6 for those two. 15 plus seven is what?

LIAM: 15 plus seven is 22.

LAURA: 22 on the first arrow. 15 plus four is 19 on the second arrow. I'm a little upset right now. And then I'm going to shoot the third arrow through the Blazing Bowstring. I mean my second attack.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And that doesn't hit him, so. Good times.

MATT: So as you land, you get up, pull out your arrow, and as you pull back and release it, you can see it bursts into arcane energy and splits into three different arrows, two slamming into the fog cloud and hitting the sides of the dragon, and it's knocked around for a second. It looks around and its eyes peer at you– You did the additional Hunter's Mark damage on it, right?

LAURA: I did.

MATT: Cool. You see now it's looking around, choosing what its next round is going to be about, and you seem like a tasty morsel, though not entirely drawn to its attention at the moment. You still have a little bit of movement if you wanted to move.

LAURA: Can I– No.

TALIESIN: Just for clarification: which door is back into the keep? That one. Okay.

LAURA: Is it possible to get inside the door?

MATT: Inside of–

LAURA: The door that I'm right there– If I backed up into the door?

MATT: Yeah, I'd say you could. We'll say you're inside right now. You hide inside the best you can to keep out of view.

LAURA: Yeah, I want to be ducked around a wall, if I can, on the inside of the door.

MATT: Okay. That ends your turn?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All right, so, at that point now, your guards over here don't have– they can't see at all, but they saw you jump off the side. Kendrick is going to go ahead and take the ladder down, and it's going to be his movement to land there. They're both going to jump and make your– using your example. Cordell, not bad, and Shayne– actually, both rolled pretty well. Both managed to prevent any fall damage, catching themselves on the ground with their heavy crossbows ready. They rush up and fire both at the dragon. Five and a one, god damn– That hits, and a 19. All right, so Cordell and Shayne both manage to get one shot that hits the dragon on both sides. So both bolts hit, so that's seven damage and ten damage, so 17 damage total from them, as they fire the heavy crossbow, try and reload it and get off a second shot. That ends their turn, now. That brings us to Grog's turn.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And run at Trinket.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: He's covered in how much ice?

MATT: About an inch, inch and a half of ice, and the rest of the entities, all the rest of the people that died, they all got frozen in place and some of them shattered in the impact and there's chunks of them frozen on the ground.

LIAM: Is that a medicine check at this point? If Trinket is frozen in ice? You can't say–

MATT: You have no idea.

LIAM: Thanks. Could I pee on him and thaw him out, quickly?

MATT: Over time, yeah. You'll have to drink a lot beforehand and wait a little while, jog in place. What you got, Grog?

TRAVIS: I would like to run to the side that is closest to you, on Trinket. I would like to start pushing him along the lawn, towards the entrance to the Keep, like a giant ice block.

MATT: Okay, so this side there. Go ahead and make a strength check.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Because you are raging, you have advantage on strength checks.

TRAVIS: Yes, thank god. 18.

MATT: 18, okay. You did suffer damage this turn, but you started raging this turn, so if you don't suffer damage until the beginning of next turn, your rage ends and you'll have to rage again. Just a heads up. But with that roll, though, you managed to push him, we'll say 15 feet that direction. (grunts) Pushing a giant frozen bear and he's sliding against the grass in the front of the courtyard. Sweat's beginning to pop on your brow as your teeth are gritted, and looking over your shoulder, you can still hear the snapping and the– The air itself of the entire courtyard has dropped about 20 degrees, and you can begin to see your breath in the vicinity of this creature. That ends your turn, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Scanlan now steps out from the inside of the Keep, because Sam is texting me what he wants to do. He rushes out at this point. Seeing all of this from the inside, he whips out his Wand of Fireballs and aims it up at the bottom of the dragon that is now visible underneath. As you see now, the edge of the wand flickers red for a second, before a little bead of light streaks forward and (explosion) detonates beneath it. The dragon would fail its saving throw, but it's going to use its Legendary Resistance once to auto-save, so it takes half damage. He is going to use– What did he tell me, how many slots he wanted to do? Okay, so he's going to use three of its charges to do this one, that will put it at–

LAURA: What is he doing?

LIAM: He's trying to resist. Scanlan sent a Fireball at it and it's fucking with it.

MATT: 36 damage halved from him, so that still puts it at 17 points of fire damage to it, not too shabby. As it blasts out from the opposite side of it through the bottom of the cloud, keeping everyone else outside of the collateral damage radius of the Fireball because of its height, so that's good. Scanlan then, realizing the circumstances, uses the rest of his movement to get back into the very corner of the Keep and defend himself against the wall. That's going to end Scanlan's turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: All right, I'm– Can I run over to where Trinket is? Okay. I'm going to Cure Wounds on him.

MATT: Okay. So you move over to Trinket. All right, go ahead and cast Cure Wounds.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to cast it at 4th-level.

MATT: 4th-level, okay. 4d8 plus five.

TRAVIS: On the floor.

ASHLEY: Dang! 30.

MATT: 30. Trinket heals up– As Pike reaches out, grasping her symbol in one hand, a look of desperation in her face, her hand goes out and touches the ice and as her hand touches, her fingers melt through the ice with divine energy in her fingertips, and manages to touch Trinket's fur beneath. As the divine energy filters through her body, Trinket's form glows from the inside and the ice begins to crack before it all shatters off of Trinket's body and Trinket catches himself (bear grunts) and shakes off what little bit of remaining ice and moisture is on the coat.

LAURA: Thank you guys.

ASHLEY: I want to scratch behind his ears.

MATT: Okay. Trinket goes (bear noises) Trinket nudges you and licks your face before looking up and growling very angrily at the dragon.

LAURA: I don't think Vex even saw any of that, like Vex doesn't even know he was unconscious.

LIAM: Got to go Revenant on that bear!

MATT: That is an angry bear, and those who have seen the movie know how scary an angry bear is. Great. Pike, you still have a little bit of movement, if you want to move. You have like 15 more feet, if you wanted to use that, your call.

ASHLEY: Okay, you guys are my eyes, so I can't really see it from here. But I guess anywhere there's cover. Is that a tree?

MATT: You can start moving towards the tree or the front of the keep, tree is closer but currently has two other people hiding there.

LIAM: Or behind the goliath.

ASHLEY: What was that?

LIAM: Behind the goliath.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MATT: All right, you move over here and use Grog as cover, we'll say, and leap over there. Classic Pike-Grog technique.

(laughter)

MATT: Cool. Ends your turn. The rest of these survivors on this side of the wall are going to start fleeing in this direction, using their turn to get the hell out. These guys here are going to do a full-round dash to get inside the keep, and they manage to make it inside. These guys here are moving back. Actually, no, these guys now that are inside the keep are going to run, they get almost all the way to the keep. There we go. The dwarf gets about that far, this guy almost makes it in. They're all right at the cusp of getting into the keep, screaming and running past you, moving between the different frozen bodies, not even paying attention to any of you, as the look of sheer terror on their faces has taken over. That brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to drop down– Like a boss.

MATT: Are you going to leap or climb down?

TALIESIN: I'm going to leap.

MATT: All right, and roll.

TALIESIN: 29.

MATT: 29, success and managed to avoid one of your guards who was right below you. You weren't aware and managed to dodge off to the side this way and use the edge of the wall to kick off to change the trajectory, as you land, carrying Bad News in one hand, three-point landing in the other.

LAURA: Sick, Percy.

LIAM: Hold that gun up from the ground.

MATT: Yep. Just making sure it doesn't damage itself.

TALIESIN: Okay, the next thing I'm going to do is, I'm going to concentrate really hard and I'm going to try and conjure Hex to see if it works.

MATT: Okay. So as you focus and look up, you can see now some of the fog cloud that surrounds it congeals into a darker color and clings to the dragon's form as it is now Hexed by you.

TALIESIN: It still works.

MATT: Is seems that as long as the shadow entity has been within you, though it is no longer bound to your weapon and yourself, it did leave some dark scars on your soul.

LIAM: Left a taint upon you.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: So, just to remind you, that means that he has disadvantage on all agility checks.

MATT: Are you choosing dexterity? Because you choose which one of the–

TALIESIN: Oh, on which checks? Constitution.

MATT: Constitution, all right. So I'll put that down.

LAURA: I like it, I like it.

MATT: I'm not sure that's how it works here. Someone will yell it later.

TALIESIN: Ability check, on any ability checks.

MATT: On ability checks, yes. Good to know.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend a grit point. I'm going to take another shot to try and drop him.

MATT: Even further?

TALIESIN: Yeah. Just for fun.

MATT: Because saving throws are– I don't–

TALIESIN: Are they not? Because I'll use that Grit point for something else, if–

MATT: I don't believe saves are ability checks, unfortunately, so that wouldn't affect that. Yeah, it is its own circumstance.

TALIESIN: It's its own circumstance? In that case, I'm going to spend my point for Deadeye.

MATT: Okay. Advantage on the shot.

TALIESIN: Advantage on the shot.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: And do I want to go nuts? I'm going to go nuts. I'm going to add Sharpshooter to that, might as well.

MATT: You cannot overlap the shots. No, only one shot effect on an attack at a time, sorry.

TALIESIN: That's fine, here we go.

TRAVIS: Come on, go nuts.

TALIESIN: Both– 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

TALIESIN: 2d12.

MATT: And add your 1d6 damage as well.

TALIESIN: Oh, thank you for reminding me– 17 points of damage plus four points of necrotic damage.

MATT: Nice. 21 damage total.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use the rest of my movement to duck in there. I want to try and spin all the way back so I'm completely out of sight. Is that door open?

MATT: There's a little space there, I mean.

TALIESIN: Open the door.

MARISHA: Does that lead to our keep?

TALIESIN: No, it's the other door that leads to our keep. So we're both going to get in and dual-wall it.

LAURA: Yeah!

TALIESIN: And then I'm going to use my bonus action to take one of my few remaining potions. The medium one.

LAURA: Does the door actually open on it?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Heh, that's so cool.

TALIESIN: What does the mid-range potion do? I should really start writing this down. Is it one–

TRAVIS: Mid-range potion?

TALIESIN: The second-level potion.

MATT: Of healing, you mean? That is–

LIAM: 10d10.

MATT: Not so much. Second level, greater healing is 4d4 plus four.

TALIESIN: 4d4 plus four.

MATT: You got it. All right, cool. That ends Percy's turn, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I want to double check, the boots of speed that I wear, it's ten rounds each day, the haste effect's duration need not be consecutive rounds. So it was one or two back in Emon, and I've had one round here.

MATT: That's the old Pathfinder rules.

LIAM: So what is it, ten minutes now? I think it remember the ten-minute thing–

MATT: No. Haste lasts for a minute, you get to use the spell on you once. Yeah. In this ruleset, it's a little too much.

LIAM: All right, so, I'm going to dash towards the tree in that corner and get away from this clump of my friends.

MATT: Over this way?

LIAM: Towards the wall, yeah. I should be able to get behind that tree, I think, if I dash?

MATT: If you dash, yeah. Yeah, you can get over there, behind that way.

LIAM: So then I'm going to throw a dagger, it's all I can do. Can I use an action to hide? Or it's a bonus action only?

MATT: As you throw it, the arc just misses the bottom, what's the maximum range on the dagger, right?

LIAM: Whoa, I'm asking if instead of throwing a dagger, can I hide instead?

MATT: You could, yeah.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that.

MATT: Yeah, because right now, it's at 60 feet away, but it's at an upward angle from you, which adds a little more distance, your dagger would miss it at this range, and you would know that.

LIAM: So I'm running balls-out to that tree, and I'm going to go right up against the tree. And fucking wait and that's it.

MATT: Cool. All right, did you roll stealth?

LIAM: Oh, sure. I'm going to use Luck, I still have a little Luck today, good, that's better. 31.

MATT: 31. Good, good, good– Okay, that ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Oh god. Okay, I'm afraid of everything– I'm afraid if I throw up a Wall of Stone or anything like that, he'll be able to be like, oh, I'm a fucking dragon, so I'll go to the other side of the wall. Here's what I'm going to do: I'm going to start running towards the keep. Start running towards the keep. I'm going to go ahead and cast Conjure Woodland Beings. And I'm going to summon a giant eagle.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: This is dropping my Fog Cloud, since that was real fucking useful.

MATT: So, where are you conjuring it?

MARISHA: I'm gonna conjure it right on the other side of him where it's– I can then have it do an attack, correct? In the same turn?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I command it to go for its eyeballs.

LIAM: Eagle to the fucking face.

TALIESIN: Eagle to the eye!

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Oh, that's inauspicious.

MATT: All right, so as the eagle goes up. Do you have stats for the eagle?

LAURA: That eagle is weally weally close to that dwagon.

MARISHA: Oh right, he's attacking, right, right. He has talons.

MATT: You've got to roll for damage on that.

MARISHA: That was more of a distraction.

MATT: Which spell is this? Conjure–

MARISHA: Conjure Woodland Beings.

MATT: Conjure Woodland Beings.

MARISHA: It's a 4th-level spell.

MATT: 4th-level spell, thank you. All right, great.

MARISHA: It was a 19– Oh wait, plus five is 21.

MATT: I have to roll initiative for it separately as part of the spell. It rolled a 20.

MARISHA: It rolled a 20?

MATT: All right, so I'll say given that case I'll let it go ahead and go immediately, but next turn it starts at 20.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: That is pretty close to what you got.

MARISHA: It rolled a 21 on its attack.

MATT: 21? Hits! Actually.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Go, eagle, go! Right in the eyes.

TRAVIS: Just barely hits or hits?

MATT: It's close to barely hitting him.

MARISHA: Yeah! 2d– So that's 11 plus three– 14 points of damage.

MATT: 14 points of damage. As the eagle starts clawing at it, you can see the dragon rears back, unexpected to see the sudden giant eagle appear out of the middle of the air and go clawing at its face. You can see it rears back as it does so, moving its head out of the way. Gets a couple of scratches in, but still an ancient dragon. It's more spooked than really hurting from the impact, but it caught it off guard.

MARISHA: It's supposed to be a distraction, all right– And then I use a bonus action to be like: everyone inside!

MATT: All right, that's your turn? Now it is the white dragon's turn. Let's see if its breath weapon returns. Nope, it rolled a one. So instead, it's going to ignore the eagle.

MARISHA: Great.

MATT: As instead it lands right about there.

TRAVIS: It lands?

MATT: It lands (impact). As it impacts, the whole ground shakes around you. As you were pushing Trinket, you look over your shoulders, the shadow encompasses the area, and as you look over, you see it land with a heavy impact. Giant frozen gnashing teeth as mist emanates from the side of its jaws. It's going to use its multiattack, including its Frightful Presence. I need everybody, everybody to roll a wisdom saving throw.

TALIESIN: Including us inside?

MATT: Yep. As it rears back and gives off a horrible roar that shakes the stones of the actual keep.

MARISHA: 23.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 18.

TRAVIS: 18.

TALIESIN: Seven.

LAURA: Eight for me.

MATT: Oh, Scanlan rolled a 19.

LAURA: And 19 for Trinket.

TALIESIN: Actually, I'm going to spend my resolve and reroll that.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: Ten.

MATT: Okay, everyone who rolled an 18 or lower, it shakes you to your core. You suddenly really realize what you are dealing with here and the fear causes you to fight with the fight or flight impulse in your body. You are considered frightened.

LIAM: Too late for Luck? (laughs) I got one more charge.

TRAVIS: I can't be charmed or frightened.

MATT: Yeah, you're still raging so it doesn't affect you.

LIAM: Nope, nope.

MATT: Nope. Okay. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while it's in your line of sight.

LAURA: Man, I wish we would've a Fancy Feast.

MATT: And you cannot move closer to it willingly. You can only move away from it.

LIAM: So attack rolls and what was the other?

MATT: Ability checks. While you can see it. You're so scared of this thing.

LAURA: What is it really called?

MARISHA: Heroes' Feast.

LAURA: Fancy Feast is way better.

MATT: Lower level, but helpful.

LIAM: (singing) I like chicken, I like liver, Meow Mix, Meow Mix, please deliver.

TRAVIS: In the middle of white death.

MATT: It's going to make a bite attack against Pike and two claw attacks against Grog, who are right there. So Pike, you look up as its jaws come down at you from above. That's a natural 20.

TRAVIS: Oh fuck, shit.

MATT: Against you, Grog, two claw attacks, that is 23.

TRAVIS: Come on, taint-smear.

MATT: And 22.

TRAVIS: Tickles, both of them.

MATT: Okay, so against you, Grog, you take–

LAURA: Wait, that was against Grog?

MATT: The bite was against Pike. Two claws against you. So Grog, you take 15 points of slashing damage, reduced to half because you are raging. So, eight. And the other claw, that's a little higher, that is going to be 18 points of slashing damage. So down to nine.

LAURA: So wait, so Pike was the one that took those huge hits?

MATT: The critical bite.

LAURA: (gasps) Are you okay, Pike?

ASHLEY: I don't know. (singing) Critical bite!

LIAM: What's Pike's AC? What's Pike's AC?

MATT: 20, but it rolled a critical hit. So that's–

LIAM: Ooh, what's that face?

TALIESIN: Don't do that!

MATT: So 17 times two. 34 plus eight. 42 points of piercing damage.

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.

MATT: However, you then also suffer, as the freezing jaws clench around you and the cold surrounds you, you suffer an additional, that was 42 right?

LIAM: I think you just said 'two', you just said 'two.'

MATT: Nah. Nine plus– 13 points of cold damage. So 55 points of damage total.

TRAVIS: Where you at, Pike?

LAURA: Are you okay?

ASHLEY: I am at, hold on–

LIAM: Carry the one. Carry the three.

ASHLEY: Hold on, one second.

MATT: Doing math here.

LAURA: “One second, let me check.”

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm at 25. Could be worse, could be worse.

MATT: That ends its turn.

TRAVIS: Are we really fighting this thing or are we running?

MARISHA: That what I was about to ask. Are we fighting or are we running?

TRAVIS: We are getting our fucking asses handed to us.

LAURA: Is it ancient?

TRAVIS: He keeps saying ancient. So it's ancient.

MATT: That brings us to Vex's turn.

LAURA: My turn? I'm feared.

MATT: Yeah, so you can attack it but you can't move closer to it and have disadvantage on all your attacks.

TALIESIN: What can we do to unfear?

MATT: You repeat the saving throw at the end of each of your turns. Or it lasts for a minute.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to use my bonus round to hide. Stealth.

MATT: Okay, so go ahead and roll a stealth check.

LAURA: 23. We're stuck where we are because we can't run closer to it.

TRAVIS: You can run away from it.

MATT: You have disadvantage on the stealth check, by the way.

LAURA: I did, and it was 23.

MATT: 23, gotcha.

MARISHA: Who's not feared?

LAURA: Oh! It's disadvantage, but I had advantage.

MATT: So it's just a straight roll.

LAURA: Even. I don't remember what the first–

LIAM: I wasn't paying attention.

LAURA: Should I reroll it?

MATT: We'll take the 23, it's fine. Okay. You're inside and you know it's outside and you heard the roar and shaking and so you can peek around the corner but you cannot move out of the building. You can basically strafe to the side to get a look out as you want to, if you want to fire on it.

LAURA: Okay, I guess I'll try to shoot it, then.

MATT: Okay, go for it. So disadvantage on both your attacks.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Trinket shrugged it off, Trinket is like, “Whatever, I got this.”

LAURA: Oh okay so– That was good, that was good, 26. With disadvantage. Okay, so I'll do the first one right now.

MARISHA: If we're running, I don't want to bust out my good shit.

TRAVIS: We've got to run, right? I think it's stupid if we stay.

LIAM: But where do we go? If we're outdoors, we're dead.

MARISHA: We can go down– inside, anyways.

LIAM: And go where?

TRAVIS: I don't know where, can he get inside the keep?

LIAM: Sure, he can dig–

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22 hits.

LAURA: Because I got Sneak Attack, right, because I'm hiding?

MATT: Yes, because you are technically hiding and it didn't roll high enough perception.

LAURA: Okay, so 23 was the damage on the first arrow.

MATT: All right, was that including the sneak attack d6?

LIAM: I don't know where to go. We can't go above ground because we're dead.

LAURA: Now, the second one I don't think hits, it was like an 18.

MATT: Nope, that misses. So the first one, you fire and it manages to hit the creature because it does not see you. It hits to the side of its neck and looks over. It goes–

LAURA: I duck back behind the wall.

MATT: Okay, behind the wall. You do reveal yourself as part of the strike, and it does see you duck inside and growls.

LAURA: Okay, and I want to send Trinket into the keep, if he can make it.

MATT: Trinket is going to rush this way.

LAURA: Is that, should I send Trinket into the keep?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: It gets an attack of opportunity against Trinket.

LAURA: Balls, what? Really?

TALIESIN: But it's holding Pike, so it has no bite.

MATT: Well, no, it didn't grapple her, it just bit her and released. She managed to get her way out of its mouth. That's going to be a 26 to hit.

LAURA: Ah Jesus, it hits, come on.

MATT: All right, so Trinket takes 14 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Is he good?

LAURA: He's fine. Bear-ly.

MATT: Oh, what! I see what you did. Does that end your turn?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Did you do a saving throw?

MATT: Do your saving throw, to see if you shrug off the frightened ability.

LAURA: Okay, so is it wisdom?

MATT: It's wisdom-based, yeah.

LAURA: Ooh, 17, 18, 19!

MATT: 19 is just what you need, you managed to shake off the fright from this. Seeing Trinket rush off, you're like, “Okay, I can do this.” At the end of your turn, the white dragon is going to use–

LAURA: I'm not afraid anymore, you hear that?

MATT: It's going to go ahead and use two of its actions to do a wing attack.

LIAM: Shit.

MATT: So every creature within 15 feet of it, as it's sitting there, beats its wings around it and kicks up all this cold wind and air that blasts out, threatening to knock you off your feet. This is going to affect Grog, Pike, and Shayne. So I need you guys to make a dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: Pike, get out of there!

MATT: Dexterity saving throw.

ASHLEY: I'm trying, I'm trying.

TRAVIS: I have advantage on those. Because of Danger Sense.

ASHLEY: Ah! Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Natural 20!

(cheering)

ASHLEY: I don't have any dexterity modifier.

MATT: Cool. So– All right, so yeah. I'll see if Shayne– Shayne does not make it with a two, so Shayne takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. As she is rushing up, she's dropped her heavy crossbow and she's pulling a weapon out, and she rushes up, yelling, her red hair blown back from the wind as it's beating towards her. She gets bludgeoned with the sheer force of the wind from under the wings and knocked flat on her back. At the end of that attack, it now gets to move half its movement and so it– There we go, a fly speed of 80, it's going to move 40 feet. So that will put it at 20 up this way as it starts backing away. And it's going to move 20 feet in this direction.

TRAVIS: I get an attack of opportunity on it, right?

MATT: As it pulls away from you, yes you do.

LAURA: Pike gets one, too.

MATT: No, actually, neither of you– no, Grog is the only that does, because Pike, you're too far away, and it has reach on its attacks, so it doesn't have to be right up against you to hit you. But you still have to be up against it to get an attack.

TRAVIS: 22. Does that hit?

MATT: That hits, yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay. This is with Craven Edge, five, six.

LAURA: Kill him. Kill him with Craven Edge!

TRAVIS: 19 points of damage.

MATT: 19 points of damage, got it. All right, and has to make its constitution save

LAURA: Disadvantage.

MATT: Not on saving throws. 24. Resist it? All right, cool.

TRAVIS: You fucking piece of shit.

MATT: (laughs) So that ends Vex's turn, the guards now. Shayne will get up and she's now going to regret dropping her crossbow and go over and pick it up again; she's not going to have time to fire it. The other two, down here, are going to be– Cordell is going to turn around and fire off a shot, as well as Kendrick. That's a natural one. That does hit, that does not, and that does not. One hit gets through, rolling ones like crap. That's five points of piercing damage, not great on that round, guards. Then they're going to start rushing towards the keep here, using the rest of their movement. Cordell is going to start moving to the side and start ushering everybody inside. “Go in, go in, go in.” Shayne is going to move up next to you, Grog, and essentially begin to hold the flank with you. Shoulder to shoulder, she, as opposed to the crossbow at this point, and seeing the two of you can work together in this regard, she pulls out a broadsword. That's going to end the guards' turn, Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Fuck this dragon. As much as I would love to protect this house, we've got to get the fuck out of here. Is Pike right behind me?

MATT: Pike is, yes.

TRAVIS: Can I grab her and run inside the keep?

MATT: If Pike will allow it. Are you going to let Grog do that or are you going to fight him on it?

ASHLEY: No, no, no.

TRAVIS: No, no, no, I can't do it?

ASHLEY: No, no, no, grab me and let's go.

MATT: You reach over and grab Pike, lift her up, and the two of you go bolting towards the keep.

ASHLEY: Grog!

MATT: That'll get you right here in the crowd.

LAURA: Oh jeez, don't attack the crowd.

TRAVIS: 50 feet?

MATT: 50 feet, but you're also having to push through people, so you're getting up, we'll say–

TRAVIS: Little meat sticks, it's not a problem.

MATT: We'll say as you're pushing through here, you get up to the door. You guys are right up there with the full movement.

TRAVIS: I'll even damage them, I don't give a shit.

MATT: There you go, that's your turn. The action was to pick her up. Okay.

TRAVIS: Get out of the way, giant beast coming through.

MATT: Scanlan, at the back, seeing you guys rushing in, and he's happy to see Pike coming into safety at this point. He pulls out his wand again and aims once more with the Fireball.

TRAVIS: The dragon giggles.

MARISHA: Tickles.

TALIESIN: Technically, fire damage should be good.

MATT: Fire damage doesn't do anything additional to it.

TRAVIS: Don't say it smug like that. Jeez. It's our lives!

MATT: 29 damage, makes the save, so 15 points of fire damage to it as it blasts from underneath, singes the edge of one of the trees, but the white dragon appears to still be not really visibly hurting yet.

TRAVIS: Yep, got to go. Got to go. Got to go.

MATT: Scanlan backs up into the keep, at this realization. At that point, nothing is right in range. So yeah, so the white dragon is not going to do anything. At this point in time–

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: You guys hear a voice come ringing out from the north side, towards where Emon is. A familiar voice that you've heard before that shouts out, “Enough! You are not to linger, follow the others.” At which point, you see the white dragon glances over the shoulder, and you hear the voice again say, “Vorugal!” And a streak of smoke and red. The red dragon you saw that had perched itself in the center of the city grapples onto the back of Vorugal and throws the dragon off the edge of the wall. And goes tumbling to the south of the keep. Out from the perspective.

LAURA: So how much bigger is Vorugal, like is he–?

MATT: Yeah, he's roughly double the size of the white dragon.

LAURA: Holy crap!

MARISHA: Is this Umbrasyl? Does he refer himself as Umbrasyl?

MATT: No, you haven't heard the name of this one, until that point. Well, I mentioned it earlier.

MARISHA: No, the red dragon.

MATT: The red dragon you haven't heard the name of yet. Umbrasyl is the black dragon. Raishan was the green dragon. So as you hear the impact, you hear the dragon screeching out in anger and no one has any visual at this point, you just hear the sounds over the side. You hear it skid to a halt, but the red dragon is still flying and grabs it, throws it, makes it hit the ground, almost like a show of dominance. And as it arcs back around, it ignores the keep and heads back towards Emon. You see Vorugal now lifting back up into the sky, staring back at the red dragon as it heads back, and you can see in its general demeanor, it's frustrated and angry and it begrudgingly begins to fly towards the east, where you saw the other two dragons continue. As the red dragon returns towards the city, its voice is ringing out at a volume that, even at this distance, is being enhanced by some sort of arcane means, whether it means– it wants to be heard. And as you can see now, as it hits over the far south walls of Emon, it shouts out once more, “Hear me, insects! You that live do so out of mercy. Fight or flee and you forfeit that mercy. Know that your pitiful guardians brought this upon you. That blood is on their hands! Vengeance has been swift, and in its wake, a new age is upon you.” Making its way towards the center of the city. “Be thankful, for until now your lives had no purpose. No meaning. Abandon your gods, your paltry convictions, for now you have a new purpose: to serve me!” And with that, you hear the clattering impact once more of the Cloudtop District, as a half-dozen buildings collapse under its weight as it slams into the center of what probably still stood tall in the middle of the city of Emon. You hear the crumbling wreckage echoing in the distance as it slides to a halt. And a couple of distant slamming sounds as it makes its way into the central borough where the palace once was. Quiet now takes the air, as all the people are still standing frozen in fright of what they just saw, and slowly begin making their way into the keep, whispering, shaking, crying under their breaths, the survivors that are not frozen in the center of Greyskull Keep's courtyard. What do you want to do?

TRAVIS: Pee.

(laughter)

MATT: That is entirely viable.

LIAM: Everyone, we need to go inside.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Is this because of us?

LAURA: Can we heal the frozen people? Is it possible?

MATT: You guys make you way out towards the people currently frozen in the courtyard– What? Did you want to use Cure Wounds?

LAURA: Yeah, sure.

MATT: Okay. You use what level?

LAURA: Two.

MATT: Two, all right.

LIAM: How many people are frozen?

MATT: Currently, I'd say about 14 people are frozen in the courtyard.

LIAM: Can we all do medicine checks on them?

MATT: Six of them are partially shattered, like as part of the impact their bodies (shattering ice) and part of the torso busted, arms missing, upper body's missing. As you cast your 2nd-level Cure Wounds spell and reach out and touch the person to heal them, a crack forms where your hand touched the body and (shattering ice) before the upper part of their torso, head, and leg breaks into ice, and you get the feeling looking around that these individuals are beyond saving at this point.

MARISHA: It's too long, it's too late.

LIAM: Inside, everyone inside now.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we all go inside.

LIAM: Come along.

MATT: All right, so. You guys make your way inside the keep. People are looking about, some people are running through rooms trying to find a place to keep safe. You can see already in the armory there's like a family in there that are huddling, crouched in the corner. Some people have moved on towards the kitchen, people are shouting trying to see if anybody they lost eye contact with is inside, you hear a couple of people shouting names. “Shawn! Shawn!” “Kayla!” Different names being shouted as if they're hoping that someone they got separated from may have made it in. Couple do, a few seem to continue to shout fruitlessly. But the inside energy of the keep is one of tension, fear, and mounting sadness.

LAURA: Can I find Erwen?

MATT: You can, you told the people within the keep to go downstairs

LAURA: Yeah, I go and find him and tell him to start setting up as many beds as he can, as many in the cathedral that we have to– In the chapel. To maybe give some of these people places to stay for the time being.

MATT: All right, so.

ASHLEY: Can I go into the temple?

MATT: You can. As you head downstairs too, you can see Jarett is still there, sitting with his crossbow on his lap, and he's been doing his last duty, which was to watch over your workshop. And as you come down the stairs, he goes, “What's going on, I heard noises upstairs, is everyone all right?”

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: Everything's gone.

MATT: “May I be excused to aid Erwen in his duty?”

LAURA: Please do.

MATT: “All right.” He gets up and puts his crossbow away, heads upstairs, finds Erwen and Laina's still shaking, she goes, “If we're having guests, should I make food? I don't know what to do, I don't know what to do.”

LAURA: Simple food. Fruit, anything.

MATT: “Okay, I'll go ahead and start preparing it.”

TRAVIS: Percy. Can I have a word with you, please?

TALIESIN: I step inside my workshop.

TRAVIS: May I come in?

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

TRAVIS: Can you shut the door?

TALIESIN: Is there anywhere private in this place at this point?

LAURA: Nobody is in the workshop yet.

MATT: Nobody is in the basement or workshop area. Everyone is seemingly scattered on the base floor of the keep.

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: Can you lock it?

TALIESIN: All right?

TRAVIS: Listen, the skull we took out of the house. I haven't told you, but it grants a wish and only those that dark things have touched can use it. That's you and that's me, as far as I know. It said it wanted you, but I wasn't going to let him have you. It grants a wish. We can change all of this. I feel like it was there in case the dragons came out of that portal. It was facing the inside of the room, it moves, and there's something in there. I feel like it's a weapon. What the fuck else are we going to do? We go for more help, it'll get killed coming into this city. We're not strong enough to take four of these fucks.

TALIESIN: We have an opportunity here, but we're going to have to be careful.

TRAVIS: I'm listening.

TALIESIN: All right. We're going to need more than just you, we are going to need a few of the others, just in case.

TRAVIS: They have to be touched.

TALIESIN: This is how it's going to work. I'm going to take it out, I'm going to have you go, I'm going to remove it from its hiding place while you go get the rest of them from upstairs.

TRAVIS: But who?

TALIESIN: At the very least, Vax, Keyleth at the very least.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, she's bleached whiter than Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Exactly, we need good people and I'm going to try and talk to it. To try and discern what it is and how it works and what it wants, and if for some strange reason things go wrong, I need people who would be more than willing to at the very least knock me out. So I'm going to be needing you and at least one other, preferably a magic user ready to deal with me if something goes weird.

TRAVIS: I step closer to Percy. I think you only need me.

TALIESIN: I need one other, just in case.

TRAVIS: Name one other.

TALIESIN: Keyleth– Or Vax, pick– Your choice, honestly. Whoever is less busy upstairs.

TRAVIS: All right. I leave.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take the skull out of the hiding place so he doesn't see where I'm removing it from.

MATT: Okay. While this is happening, Pike, Keyleth, Vax, Vex, Scanlan, all of you guys begin helping the guards take beds out of your rooms and bring them downstairs into the main foyer area, basically turning this into a makeshift living space for refugees. Heading towards and moving them into the temple of Sarenrae, as you go into the temple of Sarenrae, you get a bit of a feel of the damage that was sustained from the impact of the dragon upon the top of the keep.

MARISHA: I follow Pike into the temple.

MATT: A large portion of the stained glass on the roof and on the outside has been shattered from rocks and boulders that were– chunks of the top of the keep that were knocked off, and looking up you can see the roof of the keep itself sustained a fair amount of damage. Not enough to really be a serious issue, but it is in a bit of disrepair visually. As you guys are taking the beds from the upstairs to the downstairs, you do notice that a portion of the roof has caved in on the second floor. The guest room has been ruined and the southmost room, which I'll have to check to see who's supposed to be living there, is partially collapsed inwards and you can see the ceiling– the sky from underneath. There is a fair amount of damage to the top of the keep from the impact.

MARISHA: I back into a corner in the temple and collapse into a corner.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: I would like to go over to a quiet spot in the temple and start saying a prayer. And I'd like to cast Planar Ally. You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. So I would like to call on Sarenrae.

MATT: All right, let me pull this up. What level is this?

ASHLEY: It's a 6th-level.

MATT: All right. Let's see here–

ASHLEY: You have to ask the creature to perform a service in exchange for payment.

MATT: Mm-hm. Yeah, what would you like to do?

ASHLEY: Well I think if I say– Sarenrae, I've been rebuilding your temple for months, so please help us in battle and help rebuild our city, if that's service enough.

MATT: Okay. So as you reach out, you feel Sarenrae's warmth come to you, wordless. Attempting to comfort, but even then there is a trepidation in Sarenrae who is, you gather yourself, still taking in the circumstances that have happened. You feel that warmth begin to coalesce into a specific form, and everyone who has come into the temple with you gasps aloud as over these central worship platforms in the center of the temple, a glowing orb begin to form that then slowly takes the form of a humanoid with wings, similar to the ones you've worn in your celestial form. As the light fades, you can see, levitating roughly a foot off the ground, a human. White eyes and pale blue skin, hairless with a simple breastplate that's silver with gold lining on it, a single sword sheathed on the side, and beautiful white angel wings sprouting from its back. The entity stands there and looks down towards you. “I have been sent to your aid. Are you, Pike Trickfoot, to give me a task?” The voice itself seems otherworldly, and understanding the basis of the spell, you need a specific task in mind for it, and it is expensive to maintain in materials, the longer the task requires.

ASHLEY: Okay. We need your help. As you can see, our city has fallen to pieces by these dragons that are attacking us. And we ask that you aid us in battle somehow.

MATT: “Lead me to a battle if you wish. I haven't much time on your plane. If you have a task that I can complete at this moment.” And you know that to maintain this spell cost about 100 gold per minute.

ASHLEY: Okay. Ah, shit. Okay.

MATT: Or 1,000 gold per hour depending on the– Or 10,000 gold per day. Yeah, it depends on the task it required. It needs to be a little more specific than just aid us in battle,” because if there isn't a immediate battle happening, because the longer it's out, the more expensive it will be. You asked it to rebuild and it looks to you and says, “If you require my aid in rebuilding…” She looks with her head around the temple. “This I can help with quite a bit of haste, as it is within the realm of our patron lady.”

ASHLEY: Okay, well, yes. Rebuild our keep.

MATT: “It will be done, within the hour.” So you can mark off 1,000 gold worth of materials, and at this point, the Planar Ally's wings unfurl and begin to float up, and as it does it lift its hands and all the shattered stained glass begins to lift off the ground with it. And you watch as they all begin to reform.

LAURA: That's pretty sick.

MATT: And begin to, through pure divine energy, rebuild the entirely of the temple around within a matter of minutes. While everyone else is looking in awe, you can begin to see around you, many people who had been shaken to the core of their being, who had lost all hope, even this visual representation of the power of Sarenrae and the faith you put into her, you can see people are now bowing in deep prayer at the center of the temple as it's being rebuilt. This has been a very impactful moment for the survivors you've taken under your wing.

MARISHA: I wander over to Pike and just I grab her hand as I watch.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I'm busying myself trying to bandage any of the survivors that seem injured.

MATT: Okay. There are injuries, many sustained from rubble falling or trying to get out as fast as possible, slamming themselves into ruins or fallen rock and flaming or whatever else happened. So you tend to the wounds, so you guys are helping out with those who are hurt.

LIAM: I'm helping and as we do so I say: I don't know what's going to happen in the following hours. Do not go far from me. If we are out of earshot, you are too far from me. Do not go far from me.

LAURA: Do you think this is what– Do you think this is what Mother saw before she died?

LIAM: Do not go far from me.

LAURA: I won't, I swear.

MATT: Percy and Grog, you find your way back up to the foyer.

TALIESIN: The second he leaves the keep, I rush to pull the skull out, shut the door, put it on the table, sit down in front of it, and say, okay, talk. You have my attention.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Okay, I got a minute before he comes back.

MATT: You do, you do.

LAURA: He's a dick.

LIAM: He's just a sociopath, that's all.

[no audio]

TRAVIS: Fire and ice sale.

LAURA: Hey, check out those Critical Role shirts on Geekandsundry.com. They sure are lovely.

MARISHA: Donate to 826LA.

MARISHA: Oh god, I feel like I should scootch over.

LAURA: I know, can't hear it?

LIAM: That is a long talk.

TALIESIN: (softly) At what price?

LAURA: Ugh, what is he saying? Oh my god.

MATT: All right, sorry.

TALIESIN: I then take the velvet cloth and put it back over it and put it over and set it up as if I haven't talked to it.

MATT: Okay, all right, so. And once again reminding you, the skull itself, it's humanoid but it's elongated, it's not a human skull. Its jaw itself is– you would say almost elvish, but the features are too sunken, the teeth are too long, and the skull itself is a little more oblong to the back. Yeah, you're unfamiliar what species or race this may have been when it was alive.

TRAVIS: As I was leaving, can I notice anything about the back of his door? Like is– a lock or is it flat, plain?

MATT: I'm gonna go ahead and have you make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: 13. Minus two, you asshole.

(laughter)

MATT: As you start walking out, you turn and look at the door and take a moment to inspect it. I mean, Grog, doors are doors, you know how to deal with doors. This is a weird door. You don't know how this door works.

TALIESIN: My door is unlocked.

MATT: Right, but he doesn't understand the mechanism of what–

TALIESIN: Oh, no. I built with you in mind.

TRAVIS: I bet I can figure the lock from the inside. And I open the door and it opens because it's unlocked.

MATT: Okay, right, as soon as you throw the velvet over, the door opens up.

TRAVIS: I go up and I try and find Vax.

MATT: Okay, you go up and you see the two of them helping people along, making eye contact. You can see the drying tears across their faces as they are trying to stay strong for those that are currently in a less emotionally stable position right now.

TRAVIS: Sorry to break up an awkward moment, Vax, do you have a moment?

LIAM: What do you need?

TRAVIS: May I speak to you alone? No offense, Vex.

LAURA: None taken. I go and help other people and call to Trinket to carry over some bandages for me.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: You and I may have had some friction recently, and we have our differences, but we're on the same side. Percy needs you downstairs. Will you come with me?

LIAM: I look at my sister. What is it? What does he need?

TRAVIS: I would tell you, but I don't want to frighten anyone in this room. It's about the– (quieter) It's about the skull and I can only bring one. Percy's request.

LIAM: Wait here.

TRAVIS: I have to come with you.

LIAM: Just wait a second. I walk over to my sister. I'm going downstairs. If I'm not back here in five minutes, I want you to come down, do you understand? And I say that because I need you, you are stronger than me and I will need you. Tend to the wounded, five minutes. I follow Grog.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: I go back downstairs.

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark Grog as he walks away.

TRAVIS: What? Why?

LAURA: I don't know. I just do.

MATT: Okay. I'm going ahead and say make a sleight of hand check and make a perception check.

TRAVIS: I'm sure this is going to go dandy.

19! (laughs)

LAURA: Fucking A!

TRAVIS: I don't know why I'm so excited right now. Everything's dead.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: As you're walking away, you feel this strange pulse of tingling energy. Almost like a soft–

LAURA: Aw, you know what?

MATT: What?

LAURA: I haven't chosen my fucking rogue ability yet, my rogue proficiency.

LIAM: Rogue proficiency bump.

LAURA: Too late now.

MATT: You feel this magical essence creep up on you. You are not familiar with it, but you feel like something just attached to you.

TRAVIS: From any direction? Or just attached?

MATT: You aren't entirely sure.

TRAVIS: I look about. Is there anything looking at me? Anybody throw anything at me? Pour anything on me?

MATT: Make a stealth check, Vex.

LAURA: I'm choosing my dice. Okay, okay, okay. I get advantage on all stealth checks?

LIAM: Yes. Because the cloak, yes

LAURA: 24.

MATT: You look about, and in the chaos of the people, you have no idea what the source of this weird tingling was.

TRAVIS: This keep is fucking drafty. I go downstairs.

MATT: Okay. As you walk downstairs, you find your way to Percy's workshop, we're going to take a break.

(cheering)

LAURA: Jeez Louise.

LIAM: Thank goodness.

MATT: All right, make this one quick guys, get back into it while we still have the tension in the story going. So we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.

TRAVIS: Five minutes, five minutes.

LIAM: Five minutes. Pizza and five minutes.

MATT: You good?

LAURA: Is the food here?

MATT: It should be, I hope so.
Break

[break]

MATT: Hi, my name is Matthew Mercer, I'm a voice actor and the dungeon master for Geek and Sundry's Critical Role, and welcome to my short video series for my tips on how to dungeon master or game master your own roleplaying games.

So today, our first topic is going to be Encounter Building. So when you are creating an encounter, a combat encounter specifically for your party of adventurers or space marines or whatever else you are running, you want to consider what kind of terrain or region is this going to have. That's going to go ahead and help you guide what creatures are going to be there, what type of challenges might be in that way. So consider, is it a icy tundra, is it a frozen mountaintop or is it like a hot, muggy swampland, is it a underground cave network? There are actually a lot of these resource books that you can find for these RPGs that will have listings of creatures and monsters and dangers by topography, and by weather, and that's a really cool way to see what indigenous creatures might live there, and that's a good resource to pull from if you're not having any creative juices helping you decide what to put in front of them.

Secondly, you want to consider how challenging you want the encounter or encounters to be. Do you want it to be a really quick scuffle, do you want it to be a series of small battles, as to opposed to fighting in a long hallway, in a spaceship? Do you want it to be one giant climatic multi-leveled boss confrontation? Once you've made that decision, that'll help you figure out how dangerous, how extensive, and how powerful the villains may be for this encounter. There's a lot of great resource manuals for every RPG system out there that have breakdowns about what creatures are good for which player levels as far as power or challenge and danger is concerned. Like, for instance, the dungeon master's guide and monster manual have a challenge rating system. A creature of a certain challenge rating is a decent challenge for a group of four players of that level, and you can slide the scale from there. Also, the DMG, or the Dungeon Master's Guide, has a experience threshold table in there as well that helps you build encounters based on the total experience points the creatures are fighting. So those are really cool resources, if you're new to the system and you're still trying to figure out how to balance that properly. Over time, eventually you'll just get a feel for it. Experience helps you get a little more comfortable with balancing the battle, and you want to make sure you don't kill all your players way too quickly in the game, either. There's also a really good website called Kobold Fight Club, for those who are running Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition campaigns, that helps them build an entire encounter with the experience table stuff that helps you get an idea of what could and could not be considered too powerful.

And don't forget, if you can't find a creature or monster in these realms or any sort of villain that suits your need for the storyline or this particular battle, you can create one. Make one up or take something that's there and customize it and alter it, make it more powerful, make it weaker, you know? If you really, really want to run a game that has a bunch of kobolds as the main villain, but all your players are level ten? Go ahead and make yourself some more powerful kobolds. You can customize 'em all you want. Everything in there is just a baseline suggestion of what they think, or they created initially to be, but you can always scale them, you can make them more powerful, you can add additional hit points, make them do more damage per attack. Increase their defenses, give it some hidden resistances or vulnerabilities. You can even create whole new abilities, I customize creatures all the time for my game. I think it, one, makes it more interesting and more customized to the specific encounter and world. Secondly, for players who have been playing for a long time and pretty much memorized the monster manual, it keeps them on their toes because they'll be encountering monsters that they have yet to memorize everything about. Also, make sure, though, if you do use these creatures and you want them to have interesting defenses and vulnerabilities and the like, make sure you highlight them or note them, it's very easy to rush into combat and forget some of these cool things. So I always use a highlighter and highlight the various notes and elements of these creatures or these combat scenarios that I want to make sure that I remember and recall in the heat of battle.

The next note I want to bring up is battlefields. First and foremost, not every game needs a battlefield. In fact, I kind of prefer RPGs that don't have a battle map with miniatures, it's just a way to play. I prefer to keep things in my imagination, but that's generally more wieldy with smaller groups, if you have three, maybe four players. Larger than that, it gets a little unwieldy, and me running six to eight players, it has become very necessary for everyone to keep track of their spatial awareness. When you create a map, things to consider, creative terrain. You know, think of where it's are happening, but ways to make it different on occasion, too. You can have straight forward battles with just, here's an area where they fight, here's some hallways, here's some rooms, and that's cool, too, but if you're in an urban setting, have furniture they can use to their advantage, whether it be for height or for setting up blockades. Also, consider what other challenges and confrontations they might have with the terrain during the battlefield. Is there a giant chasm they have to get across to actually get to the villain while they're attacking them from a distance? Is there some sort of arcane field that's locked off a portion of the battlefield and they have to figure out some sort of puzzle during the battle to lock it down? Is invulnerable to all damage until they can find some sort of hidden aspect of their soul locked within a nearby battlefield, or is there a bunch of innocents in there as well that are in danger of being killed from the collateral damage? Find cool and unique ways to make it an interesting battle outside of a slug fest of HP being knocked away and whoever falls first. Mind you, those can be fun, too, on occasion, but you want to make sure to keep things interesting.

For those who want to create battlefields, what I use for my battlefields, because it has been requested a few times. You can use easel pad paper, one-inch grid easel pad paper that you can find online, and that's a real cool way to draw on that using markers and create your own battlefields that way. There are great tutorials online too that show you how to make cool battles and interesting-looking terrain with simple hatch-mark shading and minor colors, so I highly recommend that.

Also, when you're using intelligent creatures, especially monsters or individuals or villains that are understanding their own mortality, they may flee. When they hit about half or a quarter hit points, they maybe want to get the heck out of Dodge. So don't be afraid to let your villains or enemies do that on occasion. One, it ups the stakes immediately in a battle from a slog fest to, oh crap he's getting away, and the dynamic shifts to try and prevent them from doing so. And secondly, if they do manage to get away, you may have a juicy villain who can recur later on down the story with a need for vengeance. Vengeance!

Another cool note, not all battles are meant to be won, either. Sometimes you want to introduce a really powerful enemy as a foreshadowing aspect, a creature that they can in no way, shape or form defeat, and they are meant to flee from, so that they can build towards down the road, maybe coming back and finally killing it as a means of vengeance. Just make sure you try and insinuate to the players that they shouldn't stick around for the whole fight or you might have a TPK on your hands, so be careful with that one. It's a fun tool, but be careful. No, seriously, be careful. Plus, it also leaves a cool story like, “Man, you remember that one time we almost got killed by that thing?”

Not all fights are meant to end in bloodshed, as well. So don't be afraid to let the players diplomatically resolve an encounter. Sometimes battles happen because of misunderstandings or misinformation or the wrong thing was said and it ticks somebody off. That doesn't mean they have to fight to the bitter end and murder whoever's in front of them. You don't want the whole murderhobo syndrome to be consistent, unless that's the campaign you're running, in which case, fight on, my murderhobos. But let the players use their ocial skills to try and defuse an encounter before anyone gets killed. I've many games where halfway through a battle, they're like, “Wait, they may have information we need,” or, “Maybe we were duped and have the wrong information,” and they decide to diplomatically end it. It doesn't always work, but it's nice to give them that option.
Part II

MATT: All righty guys, welcome back. So before jumping in here real fast, we got a couple things. One, we have a winner for our next giveaway, for all you awesome subscribers out there. The winner is Blackshadow773!

(cheering)

MATT: Appropriate place for a shoutout.

LAURA: That's really appropriate.

MATT: We'll send you an awesome package with a bunch of goodies, Critical Role goodies, some signed stuff, some fun things coming your way, so that's fun. Also, I forgot to do it in the announcements earlier, but I have a couple of new music tracks and some things coming forward that I'll be able to incorporate into the game from awesome guys named Battlebards. They did a Kickstarter a while back to create RPG-specific music and sound effects and audio tracks and they were nice enough to give me some of their stuff to use in the show. So if you're running your own game and want some good music and soundscape stuff to work on, Battlebards' got some pretty cool stuff, so thank you guys. All righty, so. Returning as it was, Grog and Vax, you make your way down to the basement of Greyskull Keep. The door's still partially ajar as Grog left it. You enter the room–

TRAVIS: Before we go in, I would like to put my hand on Vax. Just a note, I tried to do this by myself, but the skull asked for Percy. I know he didn't respond well with all that dark shadowy stuff, so be careful. I'm not entirely sure we can trust him with it. I wanted to do it myself, but it was either you or Keyleth, and you're a prick, so I picked you.

LIAM: I don't say anything.

MATT: Okay. You guys enter. Percy is there waiting, hands behind his back. There is the table on one of his workbench areas that has a piece of tapestry that you guys originally had wrapped the skull in, draped over it, it's currently not visible.

LIAM: What's going on, Percival?

TALIESIN: Good. I felt that this was only possible if we had a few more witnesses. We have an artifact.

LIAM: Good.

TALIESIN: A skull. There is something alive inside the skull. There is something evil, or at least not good, inside the skull, and it is offering to grant us any wish we desire if we set it free. Now. Grog is inclined to take this deal. I am, and I imagine this is surprising, having some reservations. I like having the terms spelled out, and I feel that so far the terms have not been spelled out. I'm going to lift the fabric off.

TRAVIS: I go and shut the door.

MATT: Okay, and as you lift the fabric off, and you have a look at it as well, in this controlled environment, still facing you, the skull, which once again has the elongated form, the longer teeth and jaw, it has the one gem that's embedded in the eye socket, and you can see there's a little bit of almost like a spectral swirl to it, like there's something fluid in the actual gem itself.

LIAM: Well, Freddie, I imagine I'm wondering the same thing you are, at least I hope, and that's: what's in it for the skull?

TALIESIN: He wants to be freed. It. How would we free you?

MATT: There's a slight pause before you can see the gem, the swirl coalesces into what looks like a spectral face. You can make out what looks to be eyes, a mouth and a nose. Though the nose itself is less of a pronounced human nose and–

LIAM: I'm looking at the floor, I'm not looking at it.

MATT: Okay. But you see where the nose is, instead there are two nasal passages. And you hear a voice slowly creak out from it and say, “All that I require is for you to destroy this prison. Free my spirit from generations of torment, that is all I ask.”

LIAM: Hey, quick question, who are you? Who were you before you were in this prison?

MATT: “It's been too long, too long have I been here, I do not know who I am.”

LIAM: Ah, well, go fuck yourself. And I put the blanket over it.

MATT: The blanket covers the skull.

LIAM: This seems like a very bad idea to me. Why are we doing this? Didn't we do this already, once before?

TALIESIN: It was an option, and I felt it was worth exploring, and I think now we do have an option, which is we have to take it somewhere and have him identified. We have to know who this is.

TRAVIS: What are you talking about? If it wants to be set free, fuck him, it's a wish. It's like a genie that wants out of a can, you don't grant it its wish, you get your fucking wish first.

TALIESIN: It's not always genies in cans.

LIAM: If we wish to rid Emon of these dragons, then we've got nothing to deal with this fucking thing right here, whatever it is.

TALIESIN: I would like to know before we make any deals, we need a name.

TRAVIS: Hold on, hold on, hold on, look, we have a chance to do good now, right now. People are dying. More people are dying.

TALIESIN: We have a chance to kick the can down the road.

TRAVIS: I don't understand.

LIAM: He's speaking literally, Grog.

TALIESIN: We don't know that whatever is in here could be worse than what's out there.

LIAM: I had a thought–

TALIESIN: But we could find out, and since it's a wish, we'll have plenty of room to fix this. We don't have to do it immediately.

TRAVIS: Are you a betting man, Percival?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: If I told you that four giant ancient fuck-off death dragons were attacking the city and all of us barely managed to break one of its pinky toes, you're saying what's in there is worse than them?

TALIESIN: I don't know. It's in there, isn't it? And how do we know the dragons weren't guarding it as opposed to it being a signal? It could be the thing they're angry about.

LIAM: I think– I have a thought I haven't spoken out loud yet. Every divine being that exists is accessible through Vasselheim. We are not equipped to handle this problem. Maybe this skull will do something, maybe, that's a bit fucking maybe. We're not equipped, and we don't know what dealing with that thing will bring. We will go to Vasselheim tomorrow. We bring all the people in this keep with us, Keyleth sends them through the tree. They stay there, we find help. We cannot handle this on our own. My first instinct was to go back in for Uriel. We don't know what's happened to Uriel! But we can't do it, we are powerless against those things. Against one of them, let alone four. We need help.

TALIESIN: I wave my hand, and the skull drops into a shadow on the table and vanishes.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Did that blanket just blob down?

TALIESIN: The blanket vanished into the shadow as well, it's now just a shadow. I've put it back in its hiding place.

TRAVIS: What the fuck was that?

TALIESIN: That was a reminder that you should know what you're dealing with before you touch power.

TRAVIS: Can you do magic?

TALIESIN: Yes. I'm not going to pretend I always make the best calls. But I at least would like to know its name.

TRAVIS: (sighs) Fucking pussy. We have a chance to save this city now.

TALIESIN: We have a chance to stop anything worse from happening, or we have a chance to unleash something far worse on it.

LIAM: Grog, know your strengths, it is your strength–

TALIESIN: I am a betting man, and this is a bad bet.

TRAVIS: Can I walk up to the shadow table?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I start looking around it? Do I see anything?

MATT: It looks like there's the dark spot on the table, and as you reach your hand out, it's just a solid table.

LIAM: I look at Percival. We need to talk to the girls.

MATT: And as you reach your hand past that into the shadow, because I assume that this is the–

TALIESIN: You know exactly what I did. Is he reaching or is he–

TRAVIS: I did not reach, I'm looking on top of it, on the sides, underneath.

MATT: Yeah, currently it looks like literally where the cloth and skull once were, there is a dark spot and shadow.

TRAVIS: No button, no latches, no holes for quarters?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: I'm knocking on the door.

TALIESIN: Your plan is good. It just requires a little bit more study. It's a good plan.

TRAVIS: Study.

LAURA: Are you in there?

TALIESIN: Yes, come, please come in.

LAURA: I open the door.

MATT: Unlocked, Vex walks in.

LAURA: Well, what's this big master plan you're all plotting?

TALIESIN: Vex. Vax, do you want to– Well, actually, we might as well get Keyleth down here as well.

LIAM: Pike as well.

TALIESIN: Pike, Keyleth, meet me in my– I'm going to walk and attempt to gently scoop the skull up and put it behind me.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: To catch things up, I walk out the door and I'm going to get the other two.

LAURA: Did I notice that, I have a really good passive perception?

MATT: You do, you see him scoot go over to the table and move something behind his back.

TRAVIS: Who did?

(laughter)

MATT: You don't know. You head up to the main foyer area where the stairs come up through the armory and lead into to the main hallway that bisects the center of the main floor, just as Keyleth and Pike are coming out of the temple after being summoned.

LIAM: All right, I beeline right up to them and I drop down in front of Pike. Pike. Keyleth. We're working on a plan, and we don't have one yet, but Pike– and I'm down on my knee– you need to guide Grog. He doesn't listen to anyone else, he only listens to you.

MARISHA: Is something wrong?

LIAM: Yes and no. It's better if you just come. Pike, come.

ASHLEY and MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: And I take Keyleth's hand and pull her after me.

TRAVIS: Who's in the room right now?

MATT: Right now it's just you, Percy, and Vex.

TRAVIS: I shut the door.

MATT: Okay. Grog walks over and closes the door.

TRAVIS: I want that skull. I want it now.

LAURA: This is about the skull, then?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Percy's trying to do some fucked-up shit with the skull.

MARISHA: Wait, did you close the door?

TRAVIS: I did.

MATT: You guys aren't there yet. This hasn't happened yet, you guys are still walking down the stairs.

TALIESIN: He can't lock it.

TRAVIS: No, but I can stand in front of it. I want the skull, right now.

TALIESIN: Let me see your sword.

TRAVIS: No, you don't want to see the sword.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TALIESIN: I point at the table and I say: reach into the shadow and see if you can take the skull.

TRAVIS: No, I don't think so, your water fucked me up last time. You get it out of the table.

LAURA: Can I insight check them to see who is fucking with who–

TALIESIN: Good luck.

LAURA: – and who has better intentions right now?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Double insight check? Okay, the gold one is for Percy, and the thorny one is for Grog.

LIAM: Naturally.

LAURA: Whoa! Good for both of them, motherfucker! The gold one is a 27 for Percy and– 15 plus eight, what is 15 plus eight?

LIAM: 15 plus eight is naturally 23.

LAURA: 23 for Grog.

MATT: Okay, I rolled it for both of them. Was one of those a natural 20?

LAURA: No, but one of them is 27 and 23.

MATT: Right, 27 and 23, okay, good. Looking at them both, they're still very guarded and you are unable to really–

LAURA: Both of them? Seriously, Matt?

MATT: Yeah. I mean, it doesn't absolve any of your suspicion by any means, but they're both locked in this intense stare-off and you in the center of it as you dart back and forth to try and see any give, any twitch, anything that would possibly show an ounce of what is going on in their heads. It's the best poker faces you've seen on either of them in a while.

LIAM: Are we at the door yet?

MATT: You guys are now getting to the door.

LIAM: Hey, big man, Trickfoot wants to talk to you.

TALIESIN: I look Grog right in the eye before they come in. I very quietly say: does your friend have an opinion on the skull?

TRAVIS: Which friend?

TALIESIN: Your new friend.

LAURA: What the fuck? What the fuck is going on?! What fucking friend and–

TRAVIS: Vex.

LAURA: I saw you, Percival.

TALIESIN: You did.

MARISHA: I put my ear to the door. Can I hear them a little bit?

MATT: You guys can hear shouting from the other side, but it's too thick.

ASHLEY: Can I try opening it?

MATT: Yeah, it's unlocked, and you open the door and it stops as if there's a door stop directly behind it. You feel the door slamming you in the back, Grog.

TRAVIS: Okay.

TALIESIN: Or pick who you trust. I trust your judgment.

TRAVIS: Trust? Vex, listen to me. What did you see?

LAURA: Who's your friend?

TRAVIS: (sighs) The skull grants a wish. It can only be used by those with dark presence around them. That's Percy, that's me. How has Percy done with dark shit in the past? I went to him for help because I'm trying to free the city of these fucking dragons, but it wanted Percy. I tried to keep it for myself. And now he's up to his shady shit all over again.

LAURA: It specifically wants Percy?

TRAVIS: It wanted Percy.

TALIESIN: And I said 'no.'

TRAVIS: The hell you did.

MARISHA: (yelling) Wait, who wanted who?

ASHLEY: Can we wiggle in?

MATT: You can try to, but Grog, you hold the door shut? The door's not moving.

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to quick, rapid-fire– I was hoping to bring everybody in, but say: listen to me. Percy's got this fucking skull and we– Everything about it. It's a skull, it's talking about granting a wish, it's fucking fucked up just like the fucking smoke demon that was in Percival. I don't understand what's going on yet, but both Grog and Percival are a little fucked up, but Grog is more fucked up, but I don't understand everything. But things are not good.

MARISHA: What?

ASHLEY: What's going on?

MARISHA: Hearing Vax unload that information, if I reach through the crack in the door, can I touch Grog?

MATT: There's just enough of a gap where you could probably get an arm through.

MARISHA: Like my tiny little female hand.

MATT: Pike, what are you doing?

ASHLEY: Can I push the door open? Or at least try?

MATT: Try to. Pike, make a strength check.

ASHLEY: Yeah, go first, go first.

MARISHA: I reach through, and if I can grab Grog, I cast Hold Person on him.

TRAVIS: Cool, I'll stay right where I am.

MARISHA: Well– Then we can push him over, right?

MATT: You can try, yeah. All right, so. Hold Person: does it require–

TRAVIS: I weigh like 600 pounds.

MARISHA: There's three of us, we can push real hard.

LIAM: We can get Jarett.

MATT: All right. So, looking at Hold Person here, hold on just a second.

MARISHA: Oh, wait! Wait, can I redact that? Can I redact that?

TRAVIS: No, you already said it.

MATT: It has to be a humanoid you can see within range. So you couldn't even Hold Person through the door.

MARISHA: Beautiful– Even better.

TALIESIN: You read the spell, didn't you?

LIAM: Scanlan, Scanlan, join us. Please, quickly, please.

MATT: Scanlan goes, “I'm trying to help some folks, but if you insist, all right.”

LIAM: I do, I do insist.

TRAVIS: Vex. If he has the skull, we've got to get it from him now.

LAURA: Percy?

TALIESIN: I have the skull. I'm not going to use it, I don't trust him not to use it, yet.

LAURA: How about you guys give me the skull, I'm not even touched by anything dark.

TRAVIS: That's a great idea.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Give her the skull.

TALIESIN: All right, I pull it out from behind me and hand it to you. It's in the bag, wrapped in cloth.

LAURA: Oh god. I'm going to get fucking attacked by Grog. I'm going to back up into a corner and hold on to it and look down at it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I'm holding onto it? Jesus.

MATT: You are holding onto it, and it's wrapped in the tapestry that you guys threw over it originally, but you can feel it in your hands, and it's not terribly heavy, it has some heft to it, and just having it there, you're already getting pins and needles on the back of your neck.

LIAM: Now, Shorthalt, now.

MARISHA: Is he trying to bamf in? Scanlan?

MATT: No, no. So, Pike, what are you doing?

ASHLEY: I want to try and push in the door open.

MATT: Okay. Make a strength check. Grog, make a strength check.

ASHLEY: With all my strength.

TALIESIN: I love you, Travis.

(laughter)

MARISHA: While she pushes, can I get up against the crack to see if I can see through while she pushes?

TRAVIS: 17.

ASHLEY: Eight.

MATT: The door lurches, but you hold it solidly in place. You can feel–

ASHLEY: Grog! Let me in!

TRAVIS: Just a fuck– just a minute!

ASHLEY: I've been waiting five minutes!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Put your pants on, Grog, really.

LIAM: Just another minute, mom.

LAURA: I think this is probably the stupidest thing, why did I decide to hold it?

TRAVIS: Give me the skull, you don't want Percy to have it.

LAURA: I don't want either of you to have it.

TALIESIN: Don't give me the skull, but don't give him the skull either.

TRAVIS: If you want to, you can ask it what it wants, and then you'll know, or you can give it to me and we can be done with this.

MARISHA: Are we trying to hand Grog the evil things?

LAURA: I take the tapestry off it and I ask it, what the fuck do you want? What the fuck are you? What the fuck is this?

MATT: As you look down at the skull, which you guys still can't get through because Grog's holding the door, and you don't have a visual in there because he's holding it pretty close to completely shut. As you look down, you can see now in the gem, formulating in the middle of it, this swirl of a face that comes right up to the front. You can see in the midst of its coloration these energy-based eyes and grin, a toothy grin that goes, “I wish to be freed. That is all. I've been here far too long. I grow tired. I want to finally pass.”

LAURA: Are you Vecna?

MATT: You hear a chuckle. “No. Vecna has been long gone. I am not a being of such power.”

LAURA: Can I insight check the fucking thing in the eyeball?

MATT: Sure, make a insight check.

LAURA: Sure, no problem. Unless it was a natural 20, it doesn't matter, 15, no.

MATT: 15, you don't.

LAURA: No. Way higher than 15, 21.

MATT: Okay. 21, thank you.

LAURA: 22, I can add.

MATT: 22, okay, that's way higher. You take a look at it, but due to the fact that it's mostly hidden, there aren't facial tics and there aren't normal gives to what a person's intent is, and even the tone of voice itself is spectral, ominous and otherworldly. You have a hard time being able to read whether or not it's being honest or lying or anything in between.

LIAM: Scanlan here yet?

LAURA: Why would we free it?

MATT: Scanlan is now behind the door on the other side, and he enters the room with you guys and is like, “What's going on, everything cool?”

LIAM: Wait, the door is open now?

MATT: No, he's with you guys.

LIAM: Ah good, yeah, Bigby that shit.

TRAVIS: I bum rush Vex.

ASHLEY: No, Dimension Door me in, please.

TALIESIN: I think we need a name for the thing.

TRAVIS: I bum rush Vex.

TALIESIN: I'm using quick draw.

MARISHA: What?

MATT: Initiative rolls from both of you guys.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: Does this mean the door flies open?

ASHLEY: Yeah, the door flies open.

MATT: Just a moment.

LIAM: This is all seconds, this is happening in seconds.

TRAVIS: 14.

LAURA: Do I roll anything? Can I do anything?

TALIESIN: 28.

TRAVIS: Ugh, Jesus. 28?!

MATT: I'll say roll with disadvantage, because it catches you entirely off-guard.

LAURA: So this is a surprise attack. Ugh, that's lame. That was just 13.

MATT: Okay, and you had a–?

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: 14, okay. All right, so, you see Grog lower his head and then go for a burst run across the length of the workshop towards Vex. You instinctually go quick draw, what are you doing?

TALIESIN: I'm shooting a warning shot past his head, diving in, taking the–

LAURA: Are you close enough? I backed into a corner.

TALIESIN: I've got six spaces of movement in my turn.

MATT: Yeah, it's not a big room.

TALIESIN: Diving and grabbing the head and curling back around–

TRAVIS: The head? The skull?

TALIESIN: Grabbing the skull and going–

TRAVIS: She's 50/50 distance between us.

TALIESIN: I'm moving first.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And I'm happy to spend an action surge if that'll make this work better.

LAURA: Do you think you can just grab it from me?

LIAM: D&D standoff.

TALIESIN: I can make a roll for it.

MATT: So, as you dart, Percy is waiting for someone to also dart, and both of you go rushing across the room. Percy manages to get there a fraction of a second before you do. You hear the blast of his pistol past your ear, and the ringing hits the center of your head, but you still continue pushing forward in the way that Grog does, ignoring all outside interference. However, you've gotten to the skull first. Are you going to attempt to wrestle it from her?

TALIESIN: Gently pull it out of his run. So I'm going pull it–

LAURA: Are you going to try to pull me out of the way or just the fucking skull, you dick?

MATT: She's pretty grappled to it.

TALIESIN: Oh, if she's that grappled to it, then I'm going to try and push her out of the way of Grog.

MATT: Okay, opposed strength checks from both of you.

LAURA: From me?

MATT: Yeah, make a strength check.

TRAVIS: He doesn't seem to care much.

LAURA: He really, really doesn't.

TALIESIN: 15.

LAURA: Ah, that's terrible– nine.

TALIESIN: It's less of a shove and more of a pull out of the way of Grog's rush.

MATT: Right, so, he reaches over and grabs the skull in your arm and pulls you–

TALIESIN: Well, I grab her.

MATT: Right, she– but you haven't pulled it from her grip, you pull her out of the way. Shoves you to the side. You go rushing forward, and as you get there, she is pulled to the side, she is still right there in front of you, but the bum rush didn't get you there before anybody could react. So now it's your turn.

LAURA: It's my turn?

MATT: Yeah. Wait, you rolled a 13?

LAURA: I rolled a 13.

MATT: Oh, never mind, Grog goes next. Grog, so you rush up and you can now see Percy, pistol out, hand on the side of Vex, off the side of her arm. She's holding the skull there and they're both looking at you expectantly. What are you doing to do?

TRAVIS: I want Percy. I'm going to tackle Percy.

MATT: You what?

TRAVIS: I am going to run straight towards Percy and tackle him.

MATT: Tackle him, okay, all right. So, let's get some proper rumble music for this.

MARISHA: There are dragons outside and we're fighting, playing rugby with a fucking skull.

TRAVIS: I'm trying to fix the dragons.

MATT: Okay, so you use the momentum of the rush and you see him do this, you turn out of the way and go for a shoulder shove. I want you to go ahead and make an attack roll. Actually, make an athletics roll versus your acrobatics.

TRAVIS: Why can't that be higher? 19.

TALIESIN: Ah shit, 14.

MATT: 14, I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.

TALIESIN: Oh shit. 17, oh, saving throw. 21.

MATT: 21. You slam into him and you essentially shove him with the shoulder. You manage to knock him prone, but the skull doesn't come loose, he loses his grip on it, and currently Vex is still holding it front of you. You're prone on the ground.

TALIESIN: I'm prone on the ground?

TRAVIS: So Vex still has it?

TALIESIN: But it's Vex's turn.

TRAVIS: But I knocked him off of her. But you've still got the skull.

TALIESIN: I wasn't trying to wrestle it.

MATT: Anything else you want to try and accomplish?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I would like to turn and put my back to Vex, because she has the skull.

MATT: Okay. So you go and plant a protective position in front of her? It's now your turn. Grog, who rushes over and shoulder slams Percy out of the way, and he's fallen to the ground. His gun almost scatters to the floor of the workshop around you. As you're expecting, he turns towards you, instead he steps and his giant frame is now blocking you with the shoulder blades in front, his arms out in a defensive position, facing off with people as they begin to enter the room. What are you going to do?

LAURA: I reach up and I touch his back. And I say: are you yourself?

TRAVIS: Me?

LAURA: Yes, you, fuck!

TRAVIS: Yeah, yes, fuck, it's me.

LAURA: I back up into a corner, and I say: what is all this about? Why do you even need this? Why do we want to set it free? I don't understand.

TRAVIS: We don't, we don't, we just don't want him to have Percy.

MARISHA: The rest of us see this now, right?

MATT: At this point now, the door's burst open, and the rest of you guys rush in and you can see Percy just as he hits the ground. You can see Grog recovering from the shoulder slam, who then steps in front of Vex with this snarl on his face and begins shouting to her over his shoulder, and you hear them talking across the room.

TALIESIN: It doesn't want me, I don't want to use the skull. I want to keep you from using it.

ASHLEY: What is going on in here?!

MARISHA: Keyleth cracks her staff on the floor and does a Gust cantrip and goes (whoosh) to make a big burst of wind in the room.

MATT: Okay. Tools go falling off the wall and clattering to the stone floor of the establishment. All of you who have hair have it blown and wrapped around you. You are pushed back about three inches from the burst of it, and all of you, immediately, your attention goes to Keyleth who stands there with her staff.

TRAVIS: Is it dusty in there now? Or is it just windy?

MATT: It's not dusty, it's covered in layers of soot that have now been kicked up, and the air itself is a temporary fume.

TRAVIS: Do we have an order?

MARISHA: Silence!

MATT: She does that. Pike, what are you doing?

ASHLEY: Can I insight-check Grog?

MATT: Yeah, go for it.

ASHLEY: 21.

MATT: What are you trying to know?

TRAVIS: What are you trying to know?

ASHLEY: I want to know why he wants this skull so bad.

MATT: Okay. If you would like to relay any information, she peered pretty well into your demeanor.

TRAVIS: I want to get rid of the dragons, now.

MATT: So you gather that he's coming from a place that a simple mind is looking for a simple solution to a complex problem.

(laughter)

LAURA: “I'm right here, Matt.”

TALIESIN: Burn, burn!

TRAVIS: Oh, oh, the flames, ah!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Stop, drop, and roll!

MATT: I'm saying that's the best way she can discern your demeanor right now. Pike, anything else you want to do right now? We have to continue this.

ASHLEY: Yep. Can I walk over and grab Craven Edge?

MATT: Craven Edge is currently sheathed on his back, away from you. So you can attempt to, if you want to.

ASHLEY: Grog, can you give me Craven Edge, please?

MATT: Pike, hands out to you and looking you earnestly in the face.

TRAVIS: Why?

ASHLEY: I just want to look at it.

MARISHA: Pike, you sure about this?

ASHLEY: I just want to see, something's not quite right.

TALIESIN: Can I get up at this point or no?

MATT: We are about to get back to the top of the round. So you do what you're doing, okay. Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to stand up and grab a poker off the table. I'm leaving my gun on the floor.

MATT: Not off the table, the wind gust knocked off a lot of these things on the ground. Small pile of tools next to you. So you grab the poker.

TALIESIN: I grab a poker and I take a corner.

MATT: Okay. So now, Percy, you've squared off into a corner, there's Vex in the other corner, Grog's standing in between the two with the back against Vex. The three of you are right there at the front. Pike has stepped up to Grog now and is beseeching him. That's Percy. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I look at Pike. I turn around, I look at Vex. You'll thank me. And I'd like to try and pull the skull out of her hands.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a strength check against her.

LAURA: Oh jeez, oh come on. There's no way, even if I roll like a– Unless I get a 20.

TRAVIS: 21.

LAURA: No, that's 14.

MATT: All right. As Grog turns around and gives you almost an apologetic look, his face steels over with intensity as, lightning-fast, his muscular arms rush out in front, grasp the skull. Like tearing a toy from a child's grasp, it is removed from you with barely any sort of resistance.

MARISHA: Can I get a spell off on him?

MATT: Not yet. So Grog, that's your action. You grab and you have now the skull. You left her with the tapestry, like you have just the bare skull in front of you.

TRAVIS: What would I like to do with it?

MATT: You have a bonus action, so depends on what you're trying to accomplish.

TRAVIS: Can I spike it?

MATT: You can, yeah, I'd say yeah.

TALIESIN: That's a bonus action?

MATT: I'd say this would be your movement and bonus, I'll let you do that, the whole thing together.

TRAVIS: I would like to spike the skull.

TALIESIN: Oh Jesus.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a strength check.

LAURA: You're just going to–

TRAVIS: What are the fucking chances?!

MATT: A natural one?

LAURA: Yes.

(laughter)

MATT: As you reach up, at the apex of your throw you look down and–

TRAVIS: I don't believe it. I don't fucking believe it.

MATT: Your eyes catch Pike, and during that brief moment of slow-motion as you reach up, you see her face, this look of complete, heartbreaking disappointment. Just like that. It shakes you in a way that you didn't expect, and as you go through the motion you already anticipated, and your brain's already wandered in doing so. You slam it half-heartedly and it bounces and skids across the ground, over by where Keyleth is.

MARISHA: Is it rolling at my feet?

LAURA: I run and jump for it.

MATT: All right, so. It's not your turn, it's the end of your turn. As it goes rolling, you run and dodge, go ahead and make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Damn it.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23, all right. You jump out of the way, tumble, roll, and scoop up it in your arms once more, and you have it.

MARISHA: Can I get a spell off?

MATT: You have to get to your turn. Is that all you're going to do?

LAURA: That was all of it? Can I run out of the room? If I can move. I'm going to run towards the door.

MATT: I'd say, yeah. With the tumble and everything, you have just enough movement to get out of the room. So Vex goes darting out of the workshop, just past the door, leaving the room. That brings us now to–

LIAM: Relay race. Okay, then I take a step in front of her and pull out my daggers and stand in front of my sister.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: What the fuck is happening? Seeing all of this happen, I cast Hold Person.

TRAVIS: Stop trying to protect the skull.

MARISHA: At 4th-level.

MATT: To? Against?

MARISHA: Against Percy, Grog–

LAURA: I'm out of the room, you can't see me.

LIAM: I'm in.

MARISHA: How far away are they? Can I turn around and see–

MATT: I'd say she just got out of the room, you would have visual on her as she's leaving the room, yeah.

MARISHA: What about Vax?

MATT: Yeah, Vax is standing in front of her, you have visual on both, technically.

TRAVIS: Don't do this.

LIAM: This is so metal.

MARISHA: Vex. Vex. Sorry, Vex.

MATT: All right, I need a wisdom saving throw from all three of you.

LIAM: Wait, me too?

LAURA: No, just me. Yeah, you fucks are still mobile.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: Boom, Percy?

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: 15, that's a failure.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: So Percy, your muscles tense up, and as you're holding your poker, you find yourself unable to move. Grog, you feel and look over and see Keyleth as she looks towards you with intensity, and you feel a similar tremor across your head, but you shrug it off.

TRAVIS: These fucking sensations today.

MATT: Yeah, it's weird. Vex, you as well, you glance over your shoulder as you hear Keyleth muttering under her breath, and you can feel that familiar sensation of the magical attempt to grasp your mind. Your half-elven self makes it even easier to shrug off, and you continue darting forth the direction you are with your brother behind you. So you're protecting her?

LIAM: Oh yes, I'm barring the way

LAURA: So we're right up the hallway from our prison cell, right?

MATT: Correct. I haven't got to your turn yet, though. So, does that end your turn? Do you want to move?

MARISHA: Can I say something?

MATT: If you want to, yeah

MARISHA: Everyone, stop, why are we fighting? We just watched our city burn to the ground. What are we fighting over?

TRAVIS: We're not fighting, they're trying to protect the skull.

MARISHA: What does this look like? What does this look like to you?

TRAVIS: A statue garden?

MARISHA: Everyone, get in Percy's workshop and we're going to talk this out.

MATT: Pike, it's your turn.

LAURA: Keyleth, you don't know what's happening.

MARISHA: I would if any of my fucking party would for once tell me something. You all didn't tell me the full fucking story when we went back into General Krieg's house, and now look what happened. Look what happened because you assholes aren't communicating.

TALIESIN: (muffled mumbling)

MARISHA: Shut up, Percy!

(laughter)

MATT: Pike, it's your turn.

MARISHA: This is because of us, and you all know it is. Let's figure this out. Go, Pike.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Grog, did you just say you want to protect the skull?

TRAVIS: No, I want to break the skull. I want to get rid of the dragons

ASHLEY: Okay, what were you trying to do when you brought Percy and Vex up here?

LIAM: Vax.

TRAVIS: It needed someone with a dark touch. But now it's–

ASHLEY: To do what?

TRAVIS: To get the wish, but now it's touching everyone, they're trying to protect the skull, and we don't want that. We want it broken, I think.

ASHLEY: But you want the wish?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we want the wish, we can do whatever we want to with the wish and not take it, but yeah.

ASHLEY: There has to be some type of payment, if we take a wish.

TRAVIS: Well, it didn't say anything about a payment. There are four dragons killing everything.

MATT: At this point, as you guys are having this conversation, and you guys are darting out, Vex, you stop, as coming down the stairs from the main floor is Erwen. Frazzled, but still put together as well as he can.

LAURA: I tuck it behind my back.

MATT: “I'm sorry, Lady Vex'ahlia, it appears you have a few guests, suddenly.”

LAURA: What? What kind of guests?

MATT: “She's been here before. I don't recognize the other; in the dining area.”

LAURA: What does she look like?

MATT: “Blonde hair.”

TRAVIS: Allura.

MATT: “Dwarven individual.”

MARISHA: Oh my god, it's Allura and Kima.

LIAM: This is a little like Clue: the Movie.

LAURA: It kind of is. Yes– Erwen. Bring them down here. It's an emergency

MATT: “Very well, I'll–”

LAURA: As quickly as possible.

MATT: “Yes, yes.” And he turns around and hustles up the stairs.

MARISHA: Can we all please go back in Percy's workshop?

LAURA: Not yet, darling.

MARISHA: Why not?

LIAM: Keyleth, let's just wait until Allura gets here. I feel like she might have a calming effect on this situation, an outside eye.

MARISHA: We are standing in the damn hall, all I am asking is that we move into a quiet room.

MATT: At this point now, at the top of the stairway, two individuals come walking down. First and foremost, you see a dwarven male with short black hair and a beard, trimmed fairly fine, red leathers, carrying some sort of crooked wand on the side. Behind him you see, hair tossed back as she rushes down after him, Arcanist Allura Vysoren.

LIAM: I sheath my daggers.

MATT: Okay. She looks about curiously and the dwarf goes, “Okay, what have we stepped into here?” And Allura puts her hand on his shoulder and goes, “Don't worry. I apologize for my intrusion. I had a– is everything all right?”

LAURA: We could use your help at this moment.

MATT: “Certainly. Sorry, this is a long-time friend of mine, Elementalist Drake Thunderbrand. If you don't mind him accompanying us as well?”

LAURA: Is he good?

MATT: “Oh, he's one of the finest.”

LAURA: A good person?

MATT: “I've put my life in his hands a number of times, yes.”

LIAM: Things are a lot more complicated than you can even imagine. Please come in, we need you.

MATT: “Yes, yes.” And as you guys are having this standoff, you watch as this black-haired, red-leathered dwarf walks in, looking around and inspecting intently. You don't recognize him, you've never seen him before

TRAVIS: What's he wielding?

MATT: No weapons on him. You see him clutching this gnarled, curved wand that almost spirals, like a piece of well-treated but messed up wood.

TRAVIS: A stick.

LAURA: That's a weapon.

MATT: Maybe. And Allura rushes in, muttering under her breath, “I was just in Whitestone and I had a terrible feeling come over me and all my teleportation sigils within the city were suddenly severed. Both my tower and the Lyceum. I had to manually teleport us here as it was the only place I really had enough familiarity with far enough away from the city in case something bad had happened, I hope you don't mind.”

LAURA: Not at all. We're grateful for your help.

LIAM: Could you do us a favor? We had a small accident with Percival.

LAURA: Not yet, not yet.

TRAVIS: Does she know about the– D–?

LIAM: No. So… Emon is in ruins. It's been destroyed by dragons.

LAURA: Four. Ancient. Dragons.

MARISHA: They call themselves the Chroma Conclave.

LIAM: And your tower is–

TRAVIS: Fucked!

LAURA: We're sorry.

MARISHA: I'll go ahead and drop the Hold Person on Percy.

MATT: And her face goes white, the blood runs from her entire complexion, and you can see the dwarf that initially was huffed up and intense in his energy, while not fully understanding what's going on, looks over to Allura and softens and walks up and puts his hand on her shoulder. “You okay, lass?”

LIAM: I'm sorry, my lady. Did you know that Uriel planned to step down?

MATT: “He threatened it–”

LIAM: He did it.

MATT: “– for weeks– what?”

LIAM: He did it, and moments later four old dragons descended upon the city.

MARISHA: The Cloudtop District has been demolished.

MATT: “This cannot be.”

MARISHA: We don't know who all is alive or dead. We can only expect the worst.

MATT: “This cannot be.”

LAURA: Unfortunately, Allura, all of that is the reason for our current impasse. We seem to have discovered something that could potentially reverse the situation. But there's a great price to pay. It could be a small price to pay, we don't know. If you wouldn't mind taking a look at this relic that we discovered.

MATT: And you see, she is still lost in thought and there's something in her mind that's distracting her immensely, but she eventually clarifies and her eyes focus on you once more and she goes, “Of course, please.”

LAURA: I don't give it to her, but I pull the tapestry off of the skull and show it to her.

MATT: She looks at it and leans forward and begins muttering something beneath her breath, and she goes into technical mode, like she distracts herself with work at this moment. And as her brow furrows, she mutters under her breath and completes some sort of flash of arcane energy, and you can see the flash of energy attaches around the skull for a second and glints back at her, and she goes, “Right, all right, that's– That skull is not human, that skull is Githyanki. That is a species that exists primarily on the Astral Plane. They're rowdy, evil, pirating, marauding individuals, and that's one sense. The gem within that skull appears to be a soul gem and contains the soul of, from what I can gather, a Githyanki individual. Very old. I can say at least from my knowledge and learned opinion that no good can come from such an artifact.”

LAURA: Okay. He can grant a wish, he says? Lying, truth? What do you think?

MATT: “It's hard to say. It would take a very powerful individual to do so, however, I would say that wishes granted by entities that do not correspond with your moral outlook for the most part rarely end up in your favor, even when carefully worded.”

LAURA: Right. No, but I remember this, we dealt with this with the demon that killed Pike.

MARISHA: Yes, but we used our wish to wish ourselves out of that contract.

LAURA: And it had to be so carefully worded.

MARISHA: We can destroy more, if we're not careful.

MATT: “There have been powerful individuals, who upon obtaining the ability to make such a wish, even as careful as they were, they reached beyond the means of its magic, and doing so, undid themselves. It's a very, very powerful, very dangerous magic, and if this entity is indeed even capable of doing so, who's to say the chances that it wouldn't wreak more havoc than you intended?”

LIAM: We are in a precarious position. The city is in ruins, already, in a matter of hours.

MATT: “Yes, yes.”

MARISHA: What do we do?

MATT: And at this point, she looks around for a chair. You can see her hands are shaking, and she goes and grabs a chair and pulls it up and sits down for a second, puts her hands on her knees, and quietly, “Describe to me these dragons.”

MARISHA: There was one of each color.

LAURA: A green, a black, a white.

TRAVIS: And a big red piece of shit.

MARISHA: All colors except for blue of the chromatic spectrum. I got a few of their names.

MATT: As you go through each color, she nods, but when you say the big red, her body freezes.

MARISHA: Does this sound familiar to you?

MATT: “The names, you said?”

MARISHA: There's a white dragon that called himself Vorugal. A green dragon, Raishan. Black dragon, Umbrasyl, and the red dragon, we haven't heard his name yet. He seems to be the leader.

MATT: At this point she nods and goes, “I know not the middle two, but Vorugal has been known to wander the wastes north in Othanzia. Some of the offspring have wandered further, in fact I believe the Skysunder that you destroyed naught but two years ago that was sealed in the Frostweald was one of its brethren. Its children. But Vorugal has not been seen wandering this far out. Chromatics do not work together, they are selfish and greedy and territorial.”

LAURA: They're definitely working together.

MATT: “This red you say is the leader?”

LIAM: Yes, most definitely.

MARISHA: He had a message that he belted over the entire city. He said that we who live, he's showing mercy and that we can either fight or flee, and then–

LAURA: He said if we fight or flee, we'll be denied the mercy.

MARISHA: Okay, something along those lines. And then he said that it was the guardians of this city that brought this upon Emon, and that he has control. He called it like a new order.

LAURA: He said our new purpose is to serve him.

MATT: Now for the first time, you have known Allura for quite some time, she's been a very stoic, strong, confident, and powerful person. At this moment, she has withered. She looks genuinely like she's hit a level of fear you have never seen in an individual like this, and it shakes you to see this upon her face, and she puts her hand up and says, “This is not your fault. This burden is mine.” And looks over to the dwarf and says, “It is ours.” And the dwarf, you can now see, he's nodding in understanding. “This dragon… it's been called many names, but the one that it's taken is Thordak, The Cinder King.”

MARISHA: Thordak?

MATT: “Thordak. This terrible beast lorded over half of Marquet for centuries, taking the scalding sands as its domain and its denizens as cattle, and just as the city of Ank'harel was becoming the jewel of the desert, Thordak struck. A battle, however, that it was unable to win. Sent away, mortally wounded, it was thought that the dragon had died soon after, having not been seen for many centuries since. That is, until about 15 years ago. The rumors of a powerful drake, storming the beaches and seas, had been whispered for a long time, while ships would be lost at sea. It had survived and secretly ruled the island of Viscan in the south of the Lucidian Ocean. I suppose after generations, the dragon, now self-crowned as the Cinder King, grew greedier with the island's limited resources and began razing the Mournset countryside south of the Verdant Expanse and the Stormcrest Mountains.” And her eyes get even more distant as she is recalling all this. Reports of a dragon more massive than the records can compare hit Tal'Dorei. At the time, I wasn't part of the council. I traveled with a group of adventurers much like yourselves: Kima, Drake here, and a handful of other brave souls who are no longer with us. We traveled to investigate, but arrived to find this creature destroying everything surrounding the Glade Pools. Port Udall, gone, Byroden a smoldering ruin, and we gathered a small army of mercenaries and hunted it back to its new den in the Stormcrest, where a large number of lizardfolk had formed around him. But we were overpowered by the sheer might of the dragon. Many lives were lost. Knowing that we could not kill it, we turned to other means. I called upon the Arcana Pansophical, a circle of friends, arcane practitioners that agreed to work together across the land to keep them safe. They devised a trap, one that could, we believed, permanently seal Thordak within the elemental plane of fire, preventing him from ever returning to our world. At the sacrifice of many, including our companions Sirus, Dohla, Ghenn, we succeeded.” And as the tears begin to roll down her face, she looks around. “For naught now, it seems, and somehow he has broken our invocation. We bound his essence to the fountains of creation and thought he would stay there forever.” And she goes quiet and looks around for a second. “I'm sorry.”

TALIESIN: This couldn't be because of our journey to the elemental plane, could it?

MATT: “I'm so sorry.”

TALIESIN: We saw him there.

MARISHA: We did, but it sounds like he has been….

TALIESIN: We didn't set him free, you don't think?

TRAVIS: No, it was Keyleth's Ashari thing.

MARISHA: My people– Our job is to guard these realms.

TALIESIN: Is there any way of contacting the Fire Ashari?

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, oh god. Oh god, what if they're– what if they're dead?

MATT: “To bind him, we created an artifact called a soul anchor. It was crafted from the salvaged heart crystal of a primordial fire titan. The anchor could not be removed from the plane, and the Cinder King could not leave without it. I don't know how he's managed to escaped the binding of this.”

MARISHA: Oh my god, this is all my fault.

TALIESIN: No. No. This was a land mine waiting to be stepped on.

MARISHA: But wait. We fought– We fought my elders, we fought the Headmaster.

LAURA: It couldn't have been.

MATT: “That would have no bearing on this. The heart crystal is immense. 15, 20 feet in diameter, it's a gem of pure crystallized ruby and elemental power and energy. Lest you managed to find this and destroy it, which, I mean no offense, is far beyond your capability.”

MARISHA: My people, would they be okay?

MATT: “Depends on where he made his way through. The timing is rather conspicuous, seeing as how Winter's Crest recently passed, in which time the planes are the thinnest barricades.”

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: “Whatever it is, I fear that our ruse will not work twice, especially if Thordak has had all this time to obsess over his failure. I do not know our next course of action.”

MARISHA: What do you know of General Krieg?

MATT: “He's been gone for some time.”

MARISHA: You were on the council with him, do you know anything further?

MATT: “I think it was discussed that he had been killed during the demonic intrusion in the city, or deserted.”

LAURA: Would a dragon seek vengeance against one of their brethren killed?

MATT: “Chromatics are selfish beings, they do not care for each other, and the power of one is enough, but a conclave of dragons is both extraordinary and horrifying, but there is no– There is no sense of vengeance for their kin unless it is against the greater plan. Now, if what you say is true and these other dragons are bound together in the service of Thordak, I imagine they would be the ones who had the power and the resources to find some way to bring him through.”

LAURA: All right.

MATT: At which point, the dwarf steps up and still has his hand rubbing Allura's shoulder and says, WWe knew not what we were doing, other than trying to save it, don't blame yourself.”

MARISHA: Allura.

MATT: “Yes.”

MARISHA: Would you consider us guardians of this city?

MATT: “One of many. I believe the guardians–”

MARISHA: Is this because of us?

MATT: Allura looks at you dead-on and says, “The only guardians that Thordak would know of would be the ones that sent him away to that plane 15 years ago. This is my fault.”

LIAM: That's not true. If we are to solve this situation we cannot hide the truth. I killed Krieg. We killed Krieg. I finished Krieg.

LAURA: Krieg was a dragon, Allura.

MARISHA: A blue dragon.

LIAM: We stumbled upon his lair, reached through his home in Emon, through magical means. We found his lair.

LAURA: He attacked us.

LIAM: And we– I–

MARISHA: I reach out and I grab Vax's hand.

TALIESIN: We survived.

LIAM: When it happened, he had four stones, four orbs in his lair. They saw us.

MARISHA: They spoke out to us.

TALIESIN: They threatened us.

MATT: “When was this? Was this–”

TALIESIN: Many years ago.

MARISHA: Maybe two years ago.

LIAM: Not all that long ago.

LAURA: It was right after we got to Emon.

MATT: “It's been over a year at least. Well, if it's taken them that long at least to free Thordak, it means that this was probably in the works for quite some time. If we do share this responsibility, I assure you it weighs heavier on me than it does you. But right now we need all the allies we can gather. Now, you say Thordak is where right now?”

TRAVIS: Sitting on Emon.

MATT: “Within the city?”

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Vex, you would know.

LAURA: Oh, I can sense them. Right.

MATT: It's for a six-mile radius, was it?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: On the edge of your senses, you close your eyes and focus and extend your ability to feel the landscape around you. Indeed, The Cinder King still sits in the center of the city.

LAURA: He's here.

MATT: “What of the others?”

LAURA: Do I sense any others?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: They're gone for the time being.

TRAVIS: It's weird, they do what he says.

TALIESIN: Barely.

LIAM: And on top of all that, we have this fucking skull.

MARISHA: I need to check in with my people. I need to check in with the Air Ashari.

MATT: “Where's the rest? Where's the council? Who do we know survived?”

LAURA: We don't know anything. Everyone was dying around us, we made it to the keep.

TRAVIS: It happened very quickly.

LIAM: We don't know what happened to Uriel, we didn't see.

MATT: “We need to take stock of who we can consider friends that are still around. We need all allies right now. That should be our first order of business, if anything.” And her face drops again. “I just lost my connection with Westruun.”

TRAVIS: Oh fuck. The whole world.

MARISHA: Yeah, this is an annihilation.

MATT: “This isn't an annihilation, if this was an extermination there wouldn't be any survivors, you wouldn't be here. The fact that they've only taken what they can of the city– what use is a city to a dragon if it doesn't have worshippers? They're vain beings.”

MARISHA: Think, Allura, what do all these cities have in common? And what would be the benefits of taking over these cities?

MATT: “Resources, their gold, their people.”

MARISHA: Do you think they just want domination over people? Over us? They called us ants!

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: They want to be gods.

MATT: “What good is a creature that sees itself as superior if there aren't those around it to tell them as such and confirm the belief, and if anyone refuses to bend to their will through fear and power. That is the nature of the chromatic dragons.”

MARISHA: There has to be something more that they want.

MATT: “Perhaps, but for now, the fact that he's even shouted mercy at this time as opposed to completely destroying everything in his wake, means that vanity can be used to our advantage. I don't know how soon, but that's something. Now–”

TRAVIS: Allies. Vasselheim has warriors, armories.

TALIESIN: Whitestone as well.

LAURA: We can bring them here.

MARISHA: I need to reach out to the Ashari and see if they're– I leave, I want to go– Well, actually; Allura, will you help me in a scrying spell?

MATT: “Yes, yes, the best I can, yes.”

MARISHA: I want to scry and first check in on the Fire Ashari.

MATT: Okay. All right, at this point she pulls out her crystal ball from a little tiny satchel, which is in itself a smaller Bag of Holding. Pulls out a small mirror, takes some water and pours it on the mirror, places the sphere above it, and it floats for a second. And there's a makeshift scrying ritual site here before you. You guys take about ten minutes to concentrate, and if you guys want to do anything in that ten-minute period, you're welcome to, or if you just want to watch and wait, you can.

TALIESIN: I'm going to just sit, it's been a long, long day.

MATT: Okay. The spell completes.

TRAVIS: Can I roll hit dice?

MATT: Yeah, you guys can begin to take a short rest, if you want to heal up.

LIAM: I go over to my sister in that time. I want– I want to kill that dragon. Or I want to die trying.

LAURA: We will.

MARISHA: Do I see Cerkonos?

MATT: So you take Allura's hand and you put your focus into the crystal sphere, your vision lifts out of the keep with extreme speed. You find your visual surroundings thrust across the Ozmit Sea. You find yourself swooping across the shores of Othanzia, over the forests, eventually coming upon the blackened clouds that perpetually hang above the charred mountain range that contains the home of the Fire Ashari and the entrance to the elemental plane of fire. Your vision crests the mountain and steps into the valley of broken, blackened shale to the ever-burning forest. As you come upon it, you recall where the Fire Ashari village was and where you were greeted before and given your trials. Where there is now nothing but sundered, broken wood, tents, destroyed bodies burned and charred and curled up in horrible ever-gasping pain. The forest itself is flattened from the inside out, like a blast from the center of it just exploded outward, the trees all bent and snapped at the base, and in the center, where there once was that small pool of molten lava that you created the portal through and stepped into the elemental plane, there is a large, ominous, flickering gash between the planes that is roughly 30 to 40 feet in width and height that is pulsing as fire and magma pours out of it. You can see wandering imps and elementals and various entities slowly peeking out and escaping and wandering throughout the mountain tops. From what you can see, there are no signs of any survivors.

MARISHA: It destroyed everything. They killed everyone.

MATT: Allura at this point, who pulls out of the ritual, reaches out and grabs you by the shoulders.

MARISHA: We failed.

MATT: And she looks you in the eyes, and for a moment you feel like her normally warm and embracing face has gone cold and intense and her voice seems to echo with an undercurrent of arcane focus and volume. She goes–

MARISHA: My people failed, we failed our cause.

MATT: “Keyleth, you failed no one, this is not your doing. This burden is ours as a people to hold, do not let this wash over you or he wins. This is their making, this is not yours. These creatures are evil incarnate, and it is our job, our true calling to end what they have done. Do not let this crush you, you are stronger than that. Pull yourself together. Your people, those that remain, they stand behind you.”

MARISHA: I'm not as strong as you, Allura.

MATT: “But you can be and you will be. Do you trust me? Do you trust me?”

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: “Good.” Her grasp releases.

MARISHA: That's my people.

MATT: “And mine, and all of ours. There are many secrets in these lands. I'm a firm believer that there's always a way to victory, if we are smart about it and if we're quick about it. Now, I think we should look for survivors. Gather those we know that can rally to our cause, in Emon and beyond. What say you?”

TALIESIN: Aye.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Aye.

LIAM: We are to stand now or we might as well be dead.

LAURA: So we're definitely not going to wish on this skull then, yeah?

MATT: “I would recommend against it.”

MARISHA: Yeah, I stand.

MATT: “Very well, let us prepare for the fall of the Chroma Conclave. Together.” And that's where we'll end our session for tonight.

LAURA: Fucking A!

MATT: Hey guys, D&D's fun!

(laughter)

MARISHA: D&D will never be fun again; everything's ruined.

LIAM: Hey, we're all cows!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Back when things were so much simpler.

LIAM: Be sure to buy a t-shirt over on geekandsundry.com.

TRAVIS: Wow.

LIAM: In Sam's honor.

LAURA: What in the hell.

TALIESIN: Brought to you by Wyrmwood Gaming. Specifically designed to absorb tears.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Ah yes, thank you. It's so porous.

MATT: So yeah.

ASHLEY: Can we play longer?

TRAVIS: Can we play longer?

MATT: Aww.

MARISHA: What time is it? It's ten o'clock, and we ended on time and–

LAURA: That's the first time we've ever ended on time.

LIAM: Wow, that game felt like 20 hours.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Originally this was supposed to be a three-hour show, but it never quite made it that way.

MATT: I know we tried, we try and mostly fail, but occasionally we get it right. So, I mean, I'd say I'm sorry for the emotional rollercoaster, but no.

TRAVIS: The was fucking awesome.That was awesome, aside from the death.

TALIESIN: I would have kicked your ass, by the way, just throwing that out there. I picked up the poker because I didn't want to hurt you.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: All right, okay.

TALIESIN: Throwing that out there.

LIAM: My plan was to take that skull and run like a fucking football player and fucking go for the goal.

TALIESIN: Flash Gordon.

LIAM: Yeah. I would have been in the heart of Emon. Shoving it up the red dragon's nose.

MATT: Well. Welcome to the new story arc.

LAURA: Oh jeez.

(cheering)

LAURA: Everything changed.

MATT: Yeah. Oh man.

LAURA: Everything.

TALIESIN: When do I level up?

MARISHA: I'm going to find a corner to rock back and forth in.

LIAM: We would have been working in a lich's sugar mine if you'd done that.

TRAVIS: Nah, we all would have been kings and queens, we would be drinking iced mochas.

MARISHA: I was more afraid of us wishing ourselves out of existence. I wish there were no more dragons… and no more people and no more–

TALIESIN: It was such a bad deal, I said no. Like, can you imagine how bad of a deal that must have been?

LIAM: That's a good point.

TALIESIN: I was really looking for a reason to say yes.

MARISHA: And it turns out that it was just a fucking lame-ass pirate. Fuck that, we don't want to be indebted to some shithead pirate.

TALIESIN: Nothing good happens when you let Mxyzptlk out of the goddamn skull.

MATT: It was fun. I set a time for myself when she's gonna arrive, and I was like, “Oh man, what's going to happen before she gets there?” I was like, as you guys kept delaying it, they might actually– she might actually catch them in time.

MARISHA: She would have walked in and we're beating the shit out of each other.

LAURA: It all would have gone to hell if–

MATT: You don't know what would happen. You don't know.

TRAVIS: I would have saved the world, that's what would have happened. Fucking one.

MATT: None of you have heard of a githyanki in your travels.

TRAVIS: I would have been King Grog, I would have gotten a cave, I would had a bunch of harem people taking care of me, giving me sponge baths with their tongues.

LIAM: I was going to carve my name in your nuts.

TRAVIS: I would object to that.

TALIESIN: I was going to gender swap, I wanted– Percy was going to become Percina.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I wish I was a woman.

MARISHA: We still have the dragon problem, but now have the dragon and a pirate.

MATT: There you go– the de Rolo sisters– Glad you could make it, Ashley.

(cheering)

MATT: You should make it every week.

MARISHA: Does this mean I'm the last druid to make the Aramente?

MATT: You don't know.

TALIESIN: There might have been one after you.

LAURA: There's got to be other ones.

MATT: From what you saw, the Fire Ashari were decimated, you saw a number of bodies, you don't know if any escaped, you don't if any were hidden, you don't know what happened. At that location, it is desolation, and you get the sense from that, that is precisely the place where Thordak came through the plane.

MARISHA: I'm wondering about the other locations, though, too.

TALIESIN: I want to know about Whitestone. We have a lot a phone calls to make.

MARISHA: We have a lot of phone calls. Like I–

TRAVIS: They're all dead, everybody's dead.

MARISHA: Theoretically wiped my people off the face of the planet.

MATT: Such an optimist.

MARISHA: If they all busted through–

TALIESIN: Does decimate mean that 1/10 survived? Or that only 10% died? I can never remember which one decimated is. I know it's one of the two.

MATT: Yeah, that term has been largely misused in the current-day vernacular.

TALIESIN: I know. 10% died, that's what it is.

TRAVIS: I love misusing vernacular.

MATT: It's fun. You guys–

TRAVIS: Great fucking story Matt, holy shit. Holy shit, you had trees and stuff.

TALIESIN: Why do you got to be a dick, man?

MATT: As we're discovering the white battlemats don't pick up as well on the camera as the colors, I'm trying to use other options whenever possible.

TRAVIS: It works. The green was amazing.

LAURA: It was really cool with green.

MATT: So I'm going to try and push more on that. A little more work on my end, but it'll be fine.

LIAM: Tell me more, sadist.

LAURA: Thanks for joining us, you guys.

MATT: You guys, thank you for watching, and hope you have a wonderful night, and we'll see you guys next Thursday. Good night!

MARISHA: I need a cigarette, and I don't smoke. 

Part I

MATT: So, to get us up to speed. Vox Machina, the intrepid band of adventurers, who have been enjoying being honorary members of the council of Tal'Dorei, returning from a harsh adventure in Whitestone, having the Winter's Crest festival, and then going in and re-inspecting the death place of a blue dragon they once fought over a year ago, returned just in time for a series of chromatic dragons, white, black, red, and green, all attacking Emon at once. This union of extremely powerful dragons tore through the city, with the red staying behind, named Thordak, the Cinder King, basically housing himself in Emon and claiming himself essentially ruler of that area. The party fled to their keep, attempted to help a bunch of refugees inside and then were immediately attacked by Vorugal, the white dragon. A heavy battle commenced that was ill in favor of your victory until Thordak himself knocked Vorugal out of the sky, claiming that there were better things to be done. So three of the four of this Chroma Conclave have now gone east, while Thordak sits in the middle of his new nesting place. You guys decided to try and help those who were in the keep at the time, those who survived that encounter on the outside of Greyskull. However, Percy and Grog had a conversation about this magical skull artifact they had acquired: this whispering in exchange for a wish if it got freed. This led to a rather intense bit of conflict–

TRAVIS: Negotiation?

MATT: Yes. (laughs) Which, thanks to the luck of the die, seemed to avoid a unique circumstance, whatever that might have been.

TRAVIS: Bullshit.

MATT: (laughs) However, the party in this tense scenario were then visited by a dwarven elementalist named Drake, along with your old-time friend and guide Allura Vysoren, who had sensed the connection to her teleportation circles here in Emon severed immediately. There was discussion about how this came about, who's to blame, and it appears that this dragon has a history, 15 years before, of having conflict with Allura and her then-party of adventurers, many of whom lost their life in the final battle. When they realized they were unable to actually defeat Thordak, hatched a plan to seal him within the elemental plane of fire, and had managed to keep him there for 15 years until recently. We left off with Allura suddenly sensing her connection to the Westruun sigil severed as well.

LAURA: God, I forgot about that!

TRAVIS: Nothing like genocide to put you in the mood!

MATT: Yeah! That is where we'll pick up. So, at this point, after Allura senses this, her eyes go wide for a moment and she– you, being there in front of her still, Keyleth, after your guys' scrying ritual, grabs your shoulder, and looks around the room. “Who is left? Where is the council? Which allies can we draw to us, in hopes of planning our next move?”

MARISHA: We don't know.

TRAVIS: We are scattered.

LAURA: For all we know, the council is lost.

MARISHA: We could be all that's left.

MATT: (sighs) “Well, we have to try and gather what information we can about who remains. If anyone out there survives, any of our allies, we need to make sure that they're brought away from the center of this chaos. And hopefully we can reconvene and figure out a path of hoping to free our city, our entire land, of this scourge.”

LAURA: How do we even make contact with them? Thordak is in the center of town.

MATT: “Perhaps skirting the center and hoping others have found their way towards the outskirts of it. I don't know. This is as far as I've gotten to the city, is your guys' keep. You have the better position on this. Where would anyone in the town go? Are there places to hide, are there–”

LIAM: I think that they would leave the center of the city, at least to the edges, if not try to get out, though that might be foolish.

TALIESIN: Check the harbor, maybe?

LAURA: We know that Riskel made secret passageways in different places.

TRAVIS: Security tunnels!

LAURA: Yeah. Did we ever find out if he put one in ours? Did we have one? That leads into the town?

TALIESIN: We don't know.

SAM: Oh, didn't we have a tunnel made that goes under the wall?

MATT: You did, actually.

MARISHA: But does it lead out into the city?

MATT: You haven't actually utilized it yet.

LIAM: We've never used it, but they described it to us when they brought us here the first day.

LAURA: Maybe we can sneak in!

SAM: To the city.

LAURA: Well, yeah!

LIAM: We need to see if Uriel is still alive.

SAM: By the way, hi guys.

LAURA: Hi, how's it going?

TRAVIS: Wait, who was with Gilmore?

LAURA: Gilmore disappeared. I didn't see where he went.

LIAM: He was alone before it all happened.

TALIESIN: Well, that's another place to check.

MARISHA: What, where? Gilmore's?

TALIESIN: I'm thinking of where I would go if I didn't know what to do–

LIAM: That's smart.

LAURA: What places are left that have a teleportation circle?

SAM: What about the thieves' guild tunnels? Would anyone go there?

MARISHA: It depends on who knows! It's a way out of the city once again.

LAURA: The smuggler's coves, all of them.

TALIESIN: That's not a bad idea, either.

MARISHA: That was all through the–

SAM: That bar.

MARISHA: Through the bar, in the–

SAM: Place. With the thing.

LAURA: That one!

MATT: “The connections I had to this town were within my tower, your keep, and the Lyceum, the Alabaster Lyceum. The Lyceum has also been severed, and though I know not of what may remain there, that is also a place of great power, hence why it was probably a very operative target for their attack.”

MARISHA: Allura.

MATT: “Yes?”

MARISHA: How far does your arcane connection reach? Can you feel when you lose connection to other cities?

MATT: “If I have a connection to the sigil, yes. I don't have much beyond the boundaries of Tal'Dorei. Vasselheim does not allow sigils for transportation, it's against their philosophy against embedded arcane intrusion. If Westruun is under attack as well, I will make my way there in hopes of salvaging any lives that I can.”

MARISHA: You're leaving?

LAURA: If Westruun is under attack, now, and we know Thordak is here, does that mean–?

TRAVIS: His forces are divided.

MARISHA: This is a takeover. For some reason Thordak doesn't want to leave this city. Why?

SAM: This is the seat of power, right?

LAURA: We could potentially attack one of his subordinates, though. One of the other dragons in Westruun, by themselves!

SAM: But then he could just come and kill us!

LAURA: Well, then we teleport right back out.

SAM: Okay?

LAURA: Bad idea? Bad idea?

SAM: How fast is he?

MARISHA: Well, they just made it to Westruun, several hundred miles away, in all of 40 minutes?

TALIESIN: There's a lot of assumptions here.

MATT: “They move rather fast, and to be honest, I hate to inform you, but my single teleportation ability has been utilized for the day in getting here.”

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: I'm tapped out, too.

TRAVIS: Me too.

LIAM: Lady Allura, what do you know of Marquet?

MATT: “Marquet.”

LIAM: You said that they successfully repulsed him.

MATT: “400 years ago, yes, when he was younger. He was a much smaller dragon then.”

LIAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: 400 years ago?

LAURA: Yeah, he is ancient, Grog! He is ancient!

TRAVIS: Yeah, slightly.

MATT: “The only thing I can think of: there are two bastions of knowledge that hold inklings as to what could be the undoing of dragonkind, of powerful entities. There were battles of many such powerful entities, long, long ago, back before the Penance, before the historical wiping of civilization. Some of these books remain in Vasselheim, being the only city to have survived those times. A few have found their way in the Cobalt Reserve, the library of Westruun. If I could go and hope that this library still stands, stay out of sight, help who I can along the way, and gather what bits of research I can and bring them back here, perhaps we could reconvene as long as you go and find who you can of our allies that survive within Emon.”

LAURA: We can do that!

TRAVIS: Within Emon.

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: Going to let you go on your own?

LIAM: Well, she has Drake with her.

MATT: Which Drake next to her says, “Damn right, she does! And I don't mean any offense, but the two of us is about the same as you lot!”

TRAVIS: Say what?

MATT: “Trust me,” and he gives you this dwarven grin as both of his eyes spark for a second with electricity.

TRAVIS: (quietly) Well, fuck.

MATT: She pushes him aside and goes, “It's all right, Drake. For our mission, it's going to require more– success is guided on being subtle. Some of you excel at that, maybe not all. And speed. I believe we can handle this. You're better suited in combing large bits of territory and seeking the allies that may survive.”

LAURA: Will you be leaving in the morning, then? Can you go tonight?

MATT: “I should leave now.”

MARISHA: You're going to go on foot?

MATT: “We have other means of transportation.”

MARISHA: Allura, if you're going to Westruun, and what you say is true, that we have two potential options for finding out how to defeat these dragons, should we be heading to Vasselheim? Maybe that's best where we're needed right now.

MATT: “If Vasselheim still stands, I– knowing its history, that is one of the most fortified cities, the most fortified city in our civilization. It's endured two great wars, and has been the starting point of each cycle. I doubt even with the might that these dragons hold, they would have the gall, the foolish intent, to attack such a place. Especially the center of an entity such as Bahamut, who stands against such creatures. I think Vasselheim is going to definitely claim a key role in this attempt to save ourselves.”

LAURA: Bahamut is a good guy?

MARISHA: Yeah, for the most– yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Cool.

MARISHA: It's the city that was closest to Pyrah.

MATT: “Yes.”

MARISHA: My people, my tribe. We could pull double duty, we could go and I can–

TRAVIS: Heh. Doody.

MARISHA: Grog! Now is not the time!

TALIESIN: What of Whitestone? Was there any mention, any–?

MATT: “I have no connection to Whitestone. I did not have time arriving there to install a sigil.”

TALIESIN: Did you learn anything of the anomaly beneath the castle that might be useful?

MATT: She shakes herself in her current mindset and goes, “Well, me and Drake here, we spent the better part of two days studying the structure underneath the city. It itself appears to be at least 600 years old, predating Whitestone's construction. Unfortunately, both of our magics are thwarted in the proximity of this structure and any rituals that we attempted, or would have been able to attempt, to discern its nature, in the classic means, would not be functional due to its anti-magical properties. However, we've taken a few things of note, and we're taking our observations to reach for two research facilities around the world, one of which I intended to be the Cobalt Reserve before this happened.”

TALIESIN: Interesting, thank you.

LAURA: So there was no– you didn't move it, you didn't do anything with it, it's still just sitting there.

MARISHA: It's a hazard zone right now?

MATT: “Essentially. We have locked it off and it's under intense guard. We spent a little bit of time experimenting with its properties, and any object of firm matter that was introduced to this object was then torn from our grasp, sundered into many pieces, and then vanished.”

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Maybe we can get Thordak near the little orb!

SAM: Yeah, yeah! Yeah!

LAURA: I like it.

TALIESIN: That was definitely what I was thinking.

SAM: How do we do that?

TALIESIN: Well, it's part of a plan.

TRAVIS: Hey, big dragon, there's a snack over here. Take a bite!

SAM: We could leave a trail of gold that leads to it, Goldilocks-style.

MARISHA: That thing was also several hundred feet below ground. How are we going to get that dragon down there?

LIAM: Does Thordak have any offspring?

MATT: “Not that I know of.”

LAURA: Not anymore.

TALIESIN: The thought would be to actually remove it from the chamber, maybe.

LAURA: That could be really, really terrible.

TRAVIS: Do dragons have families? Do they have, like, wives and loved ones?

LAURA: They have children.

MATT: “Chromatics especially, from what I understand in my research, they do mate, but there is no family structure, there is no love between brethren, other than the continued existence of that bloodline. If a child of a dragon is slaughtered and one does find out, depending on if it's their only brethren, it could incite a sense of vengeance, depending on the color. But I know of no immediate children to Thordak. I have no knowledge of the other dragons which have attacked this day.”

TRAVIS: We should ask him.

LAURA: (laughs) We need to do as much research as we can.

MATT: “I have not seen Thordak myself in 15 years, and I know not the state of which he is in, or what power he has now gained. Whatever information you can gather safely, right now, is going to guide us down the rest of this path in attempting to take this terrible creature down.”

SAM: If we go back into the city to try to find council members, and we succeed, what does that get us? A bunch of people who also don't know how to defeat the dragon.

LAURA: Right, but they're powerful people! They could help us.

SAM: Politically?

TALIESIN: Both, actually.

LAURA: Experience and warrior-wise.

TRAVIS: What about a spy? Dragons want servitude, right?

MATT: “They, especially the reds, see themselves as superior to all beings, and will bend, and have in the past bent, small townships and civilizations to their whims and worship, yes. Which is, based on what you're telling me, is part of what Thordak is attempting with this city now.”

TRAVIS: So, what if we send a shady piece of shit to go bend the knee and walk on the inside?

SAM: Listen, Jarett is good, but I don't want to sacrifice him like that!

LAURA: What about you, Scanlan? You're so good at lying, and–

MARISHA: Being shady!

LAURA: And sucking up, and grovelling–

SAM: What about Trinket?

LAURA: Trinket can't talk!

SAM: Oh, that's right!

MARISHA: That's not a bad idea.

LIAM: And I do have this– pulling the brooch off– this would mask your true nature, somewhat.

TRAVIS: It's true! (gasps)

SAM: (stuttering) I am not going to go–

TRAVIS: Ancient, giant, red, fuck-off dragon!

SAM: They have mind control powers! They have influence! They have charisma! Beyond even mine!

TRAVIS: You'll be his bitch! You'll trim his toenails, you'll get real buddy-buddy–

SAM: I'm the size of his toenails!

LAURA: Slave Leia outfit, with a chain around your neck!

LIAM: No, he's the little guy next to Jabba! (cackling laughter)

MARISHA: You might be surprised. You might like it!

TRAVIS: Yeah, I mean like what, dragons have to eat right? Dragons eat?

LAURA: Dragons eat.

TRAVIS: Yeah! So you poison a cow, and then you're like, Oh Lord Thioredoxin, here you go! Poison cow, you're dead, hero of the city!

SAM: Something tells me I would end up his gimp.

TRAVIS: (stuttering) You Dimension Door! You're super quick! It's a no brainer!

SAM: All right, that's the best plan ever.

LAURA: Let's just think about it, all right, Scanlan?

LIAM: We need to find Uriel. We need to go in– all these are the next step– we need to see– we have sacrificed a lot to save Uriel before, we're not just going to leave him in the city! We need to find the tunnel under this keep, go in there, see who's left, and get them out!

MARISHA: You know, speaking of spies, does anyone else feel like this is fairly convenient timing? Someone in that council had to have known this was happening. Wouldn't you? All of the Cloudtop District was in one place!

LIAM: That's not a bad point.

MARISHA: Someone knew! It was the perfect opportunity to strike! They took out the entire upper echelon of the city in one strike! They waited for them all to be in one place.

LAURA: General Krieg was here for a while, before we discovered him. He had friends.

TALIESIN: But he wouldn't have known this was coming, though.

LAURA: No, but he was one of them.

LIAM: It's possible they might not have been working in conjunction with each other. They could have been on their own, all of them, or all together, I don't know.

TALIESIN: It does open the door to some definite possibilities.

MARISHA: The timing was perfect. That's all I'm saying.

TALIESIN: The timing was perfect.

TRAVIS: You know the best way to flush out something like that? If someone was a spy.

(laughter)

SAM: All right, I'll do it, I'll go and–

MARISHA: What if we go and find a shady individual, like he was saying. What if we don't send in Scanlan. What if we find someone?

SAM: That person will surely die.

(laughter)

MARISHA: You're probably right.

TRAVIS: Will surely die. Which I'm all right with.

TALIESIN: Let's go find this tunnel that we paid for.

LAURA: We need to see– get in the city and find some people. Allura, you be safe–

MATT: “I will.”

LAURA: – and silent and swift, and you get back here as quickly as possible.

TALIESIN: What time is it? When was the last time we actually took a nap?

MATT: Oh, it's been quite a while, you guys have been running since before the meeting in the Cloudtop District.

MARISHA: Which happened at nighttime, remember.

MATT: It happened at dusk.

LAURA: It's already morning the next day?

MATT: No, no, it's evening now for you guys.

MARISHA: What time approximately? After midnight?

MATT: I'd say it's after midnight, 1AM.

LAURA: Ah, fudge.

TRAVIS: Hot fudge?

MARISHA: I Druidcraft a little tulip and hand it to Allura.

MATT: She takes it, nods, places it in one of the–

MARISHA: In case we need to be in contact.

LIAM: Well, if we go now, we have the benefit of darkness in the city.

SAM: Hang on, we're going to go now, without resting?

LIAM: I'm not saying that, I'm weighing our options. If we go now, we can go under the cover of night, but we're going to be exhausted.

TALIESIN: And dragons don't care about night. They can see perfectly fine.

MARISHA: Yes, we've learned that much.

LIAM: Well, let's lie down and take a nap.

LAURA: Take a nap.

MARISHA: What time– Wait, hang on.

LAURA: Sleep as little as possible that will actually get us rested.

MATT: A short rest or a long rest?

LAURA: Long rest.

MATT: Long rest is eight hours.

LAURA: Should we sleep and get up in the morning and hit it?

TALIESIN: It'll at least give everybody time to go to ground.

LAURA: That's true. I mean, can I sense Thordak and figure out, I mean, is he just settling in that one spot? Is there anything else around or is it just him in the center, being a dick, and no other movement of other things?

MATT: You took a while earlier to concentrate and you focus on that point again. Thordak is this giant oppressive force of dragon kin in the center of the city, seemingly not moving.

LIAM: And last week, you said that Vex couldn't sense the other three.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: They went to hit the other cities, obviously.

MARISHA: I still have one 5th-level spell left. I can Commune with Nature and try and find out if a few people are still left in the city before we go to sleep.

LIAM: Might as well.

MARISHA: If we're not going out.

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: I can Commune with Nature and try to find certain people.

LAURA: Should we? Yeah.

MARISHA: All right. I go out to Pike and the Sarenrae temple.

MATT: Okay, so as you go the temple, you can see the surviving 25 people that are all lumped in. They're calmer right now, but you can see a lot of them are still consoling each other and talking and as soon as you walk in they're like– a couple of them step up immediately like, “What's going on, is everything all right?” “I'm sorry. Mom, I'm sorry” They start crying and, “Shh! It's okay, it's okay. Is everything all right? Are we safe here? Is this okay?”

MARISHA: You will be all right. Everyone calm down. We've had a rough day and it's been hard on everyone but you should be safe here for the evening. Hopefully. Everyone–

TRAVIS: Do better.

MARISHA: Look, I'm not– I'm trying on this whole leadership thing, okay?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Ugh.

TALIESIN: Ouch, I didn't know it went that low. I'm sorry.

MARISHA: Eight.

MATT: Surprisingly, I rolled a one. First roll of the night.

MARISHA: Any little bit of hope works.

MATT: Yeah, apparently. So the one man who stood up, and the younger child to him, looks around and he tells her, “Shh! Go lay down. Very well, thank you again. We're sorry for–” Everyone else in the room nods in agreement and you see they're dirt- and tear-stained and all just happy to not be on fire right now or frozen.

TRAVIS: Are there any injuries in the room that we haven't attended to?

MATT: There have been a few injuries. However, Pike has already taken time with Keyleth to see to them, when they first arrived.

LAURA: Hey Matt, I was helping, too, mother–

MATT: You were helping until you were pulled away for the five minutes.

TRAVIS: Good job, Pike. And you too, Vex.

ASHLEY: Yeah, you know, got to help the group.

MATT: All right, so, as you guys are having this conversation, Allura and Drake walk their way out to the courtyard and she looks back at the rest of you and goes, “Stay safe, and if anything happens, find a way to let me know. I will return as soon as I can with what I can find. Possibly who I can find.”

LAURA: Wait!

MARISHA: Secrets!

TRAVIS: Don't forget to visit Gilmore's Glorious Goods.

SAM: That's not a real place, Travis, it doesn't exist.

TRAVIS: Who's Travis? I can't just hop in and out of character.

SAM: Grog, who are you talking to?

TRAVIS: My sword.

MARISHA: Your sword. You're promoting Gilmore's to your sword.

MATT: So go ahead and roll for me.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Whoa! 24.

MATT: Okay. All right. So as you and Allura embrace, she steps back and gives a nod and looks out to everybody.

MARISHA: I reach out and I grab her hand and say, thank you, truly, for everything.

MATT: “Don't thank me yet. Most of all of this lies on my shoulders.” And you can see she's holding it together the best she can, but there is a crippling guilt in her visual presence, based on everything that's happening here. You know that there's a mutual understanding that, while no one knows the true reason why all this is happening, everyone seems to have a stake as to why it happened and possibly may have been somewhat at fault. And as she nods, she looks at Drake and Drake gives her a nod and begins casting a spell. As his fingers twirl in the air, these blue sparks trail his fingertips as it draws this large spiral of electrical energy that holds itself in place. It bursts out and encompasses both their bodies and their forms all of a sudden shrink down and shutter into these two sparks of energy that then arc off, and you can see these two bolts of electricity now coasting through the sky, bouncing off roads, bouncing off rock, bouncing off a tree. They both are traveling via spark across the countryside.

LAURA: How the fuck do we get that ability?

MARISHA: I don't know, but I want it.

LAURA: She's so fucking cool. Do you think that was her or do you think that was Drake?

MATT: Drake cast it.

LAURA: Oh man, that's so cool!

SAM: Should we go to sleep?

MARISHA: Well, I'm doing my Commune with Nature spell. I drop down and mediate.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: If only I had taken a dump in the middle of town, I could see what's going on right now.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Hindsight is ten–

SAM: Other number.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, three facts of your choice. As you sit in the temple quietly and connect yourself with the land and the foliage of the surrounding area of Emon, what are your questions?

MARISHA: Do I sense Gilmore's presence?

MATT: What's the radius on this, three miles?

MARISHA: A few miles.

MATT: You do sense a presence.

MARISHA: A presence.

MATT: A very weak presence.

LAURA: (gasp) Oh, no!

SAM: That could mean he's far away or that he's dead.

MARISHA: Can I focus in even harder and find where that presence is coming from more directly?

MATT: The direction that best you can ascertain is it's in the direction of Abdar's Promenade.

MARISHA: His shop?

MATT: That's where his shop is, yes.

SAM: Good to know.

MARISHA: Okay. Last question, do I sense Uriel?

MATT: Within your three-mile range, you do not.

LAURA: Maybe he–

TRAVIS: He got to moving.

SAM: Or he's dead.

LAURA: Okay, when you are sensing things, does that mean you would sense if they were alive or you wouldn't sense them at all if they were dead?

MATT: The questions were: are they in the city? Which direction are they? Those are essentially the answers that you get through the connection of nature.

LAURA: Okay, so they could be dead in the city and you'd still sense them?

MATT: That's possible.

MARISHA: I don't know. It's hard to say.

LIAM: He could have gone to the harbor. He could have fled through the tunnels we don't even know about.

LAURA: He could have a teleportation circle.

MARISHA: We should check his shop first.

TRAVIS: Yeah. If Uriel's farther away, it's–

MARISHA: Uriel, I don't know. Maybe he's dead, maybe he's gone, I don't know, I don't know.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's a moot point.

MARISHA: How about this, let's find Gilmore, if he's alive or dead then that will answer a lot of questions, how's that?

LIAM: I agree.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: And if he did not make it, we still go to his shop.

SAM: Take everything.

LIAM: Use whatever's left. It's what Gilmore would want.

SAM: It's true.

TRAVIS: I agree.

LAURA: We go then, if it hasn't been ransacked already.

TRAVIS: Let's go find that magic fucker.

MARISHA: So we're going now? Tonight?

TALIESIN: Sleep and then go.

MARISHA: I don't know, maybe we should go.

LAURA: Should we stealth in and see what we can see? I don't know, I feel like we need to rest, y'all.

MARISHA: How bad are we?

LIAM: (laughing) I should probably rest.

ASHLEY: I'm at 25.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

LAURA: I'm pretty low and I'm almost out of dice.

TRAVIS: I can stay guard with the rest of everybody else, because I'm okay.

LIAM: They're expecting– Thordak is expecting to sit on us like a bunch of eggs in a basket. We're fine for the night, we go tomorrow.

LAURA: Potentially.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: All right, you guys take a long rest?

TALIESIN: Quick question, where is the skull?

TRAVIS: You fucking– that was my question.

LAURA: I don't know, what are you talking about?

MATT: Who had the skull last?

TRAVIS: You expect me to remember those sort of things?

MARISHA: I remember.

TALIESIN: Either you have it or I have it. I don't remember.

MATT: The last person to hold it was Vex.

TALIESIN: Was Vex. Okay, excellent. I have a perfectly reasonable hiding place or, if you like, you can take it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, your ass.

LAURA: Yes, I think it's reasonably well-hidden at this moment.

TALIESIN: Excellent.

SAM: Where is it?

LAURA: I don't know.

MARISHA: Well-hidden.

TALIESIN: That will do.

MATT: All right. You guys find yourselves, as best as you can, resting for the evening. It is an evening of tossing and turning for a lot of you. Flashes of memories. Scanlan, you are plagued by the thought of your newly discovered daughter being not far outside the city when all this went down. Percy, you have flashes of the idea of Whitestone, recently saved and brought to freedom, being torn asunder by dragons not two weeks afterwards. You are plagued by visions of the Pyrah, the moment that Thordak must have torn through and the havoc that was wreaked afterward. Both of you can't help but think back to when you first returned to Byroden and seeing the smoldering ruin that you now know to be the work of the Cinder King 15 years before, and those words about wondering if that was the last thing your mother saw. Grog, you want that skull.

(laughter)

MATT: Pike, your thoughts go back to Vasselheim and the people there that you, out of necessity and need for friendship and to protect them, left behind, knowing that they would be safe, and now the uncertainty as to whether or not Vasselheim still stands and whether or not you left them to a fate you could have protected them. That guilt rides on you as well. You guys complete your long rest, you restore full hit points and you get back half of your max hit dice. You can only get back half, so if you spent more than half of your hit dice, you're still at– just so you guys are aware of that.

MARISHA: Wait, what? We only restore half each night?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Not half of what's missing, but–

MARISHA: Just half.

MATT: Yeah. So if you used eight of your hit dice, you are only going to get back, at level 12, six hit dice.

MARISHA: Good to know. I don't think I used any.

MATT: So, it is a gradual declining resource. Hasn't come up too much beforehand, but I want to make sure you guys were aware of that. Anyway, as you come to in the morning, you can smell– you're used to Laina cooking a very nice breakfast. You smell food being cooked, but it's much more basic for the masses. As you eventually groggily find your way downstairs, pardon the pun, you can see there is essentially a gruel pot and there is a soup line and food is being served best to their capabilities to the people that have taken refuge in Greyskull Keep. You are welcome to do as you please.

LAURA: We should head out.

TALIESIN: I'm ready.

SAM: We're just going to march into the city?

LAURA: We're going to march under the city.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're going to check out that tunnel first.

SAM: The tunnel just goes to the other side of the wall.

LIAM: We don't even know where the tunnel is. We need to find an entrance to said tunnel.

MATT: The tunnel, actually–

TRAVIS: And then– sorry, I was going to say and then when we get to the city, then we figure out what we do.

SAM: Grog, good thinking. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Leave it to me.

MATT: So, the tunnel has been installed to the back of the kitchen. There is a large pantry there and the tunnel is a trap door that is currently set by the very, very back of the pantry. Actually, not too dissimilar from the entrance to the Clasp in the Diamond Nest Inn. However, it's much smaller and is a small single-person tunnel. You have to go single-file and it's not very tall. Grog, you are going to have to almost crawl through at your height and everyone else would have to hunch down, except for you and Pike are fine. You guys are tiny enough. It's about a gnome-sized tunnel.

SAM: Nice.

MATT: And as you guys go into the pantry, Laina is like, “Oh, don't– I'm trying– where's everyone going?” and sees you all clown-car into the pantry.

LAURA: Before we left, I wanted to find Jarett really fast.

MATT: Okay, Jarett is currently outside of the keep in the main courtyard area, crossbow at the ready, keeping his eyes to the sky, mostly looking off in the direction of Emon.

LAURA: I walk up and I hand him a bag of 300 gold and I say, this is, far and away, so much more than we asked you to do when we hired you. And I appreciate everything you're doing. Take care of the keep. Use this money to take care of the people here.

MATT: He takes it and throws it in the air and catches it. “I appreciate that. I take great pride in my work and I assure you, I would sooner die than let this place fall.”

LAURA: Then I give him additional 100 gold.

SAM: What is going on?

MATT: As you pass him the 100 gold, he puts his hand up and actually pushes your hand away and says, “I appreciate the sentiment, but you've already done too much. You hired me for a reason. I'm doing my job, but your generosity is noted.”

SAM: Ah, he's so honorable!

TRAVIS: Is his hair blowing in the wind as he rejects that amount?

MATT: His hair is really short.

LAURA: I resist the urge to mug down with him and I walk away.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: What are you waiting for?

(laughter)

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you might die. He might die.

LIAM: Yeah. Look at that big pouty bottom lip. Go get that.

(laughter)

MATT: Some of that Marquet–

(laughter)

MARISHA: Sexy, sexy exotic accent.

MATT: – and that Ank'Harel caramel skin. Jarett's a hottie.

LIAM: I just saw 100 pictures drawn in a instant.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: With a flair.

MARISHA: Wait, you hear that? It's pens hitting the paper. It's fanfiction right now.

MATT: So, as you guys make your way through the tunnel, and it's a long, very simple tunnel. The construction is solid. You don't feel as you walk through that any of it is in worry of collapse. There has been no sufficient seismic activity or impact above ground to warrant that directly above the tunnel. And you continue to trudge ahead and it's pitch black. Those of you with darkvision probably take the forefront.

TRAVIS: Is there a light vision? I'm on it.

MARISHA: I go ahead and light up a hand.

MATT: So, you guys, all of you have low-light, darkvision. You're fine and Percy is the only one who needs the aid in this. But as you continue forward for a good 25, 30 minutes or so, the tunnel comes to a small stop and there's a very simple rope ladder that leads upward.

LAURA: I put my hood up.

MATT: Who's going up first?

TRAVIS: Is there anything past that?

MATT: The ladder goes up and goes into a small wooden slat. It's not even a door. It's almost like a wood pallet.

LAURA: Get up there. See what you see.

TRAVIS: You sneaky dick.

LIAM: Okay, at the bottom of the ladder, because she's right behind me. You know, you never cease to impress me.

MATT: Okay, you go up. Roll a stealth check.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: All right, good to know. So, as you get up to the top, you feel the wooden slats on top and as you push, there's not any weight to them. They give way immediately, and as you push it aside, you can see you're inside a small wooden structure. It is enclosed and a little bit of the morning light is peeking through the space between the slats of wood. Looking about the general size and height, it appears to almost be an outhouse structure, but there is no actual outhouse here or, at least where there once was, has recently been converted to the exit of your tunnel.

LIAM: Smells like jerky.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Right there with you.

MATT: There is a door that leads out.

LIAM: Okay, I will crack it an inch and look through.

MATT: Okay. There is a chain on the outside of the door that keeps it shut with a big, thick lock at the bottom.

LIAM: Is there enough room to get my hand through to the other side?

MATT: I'd say, yes, with your experience and your lithe form, you manage to just eke it through and you can get your wrist past, but anything beyond–

LIAM: I'm double-jointed, Matt.

MATT: And with that double joint you get that close. So, yeah, you can reach it.

LIAM: All right, so, I can feel a lock there?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to one-hand pick this lock.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll. This is a difficult maneuver, even with your experience. Given that you can't actually see the front of the lock, you're having to literally feel your way through it.

TRAVIS: Roll high, you pointy-eared bastard.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MARISHA: It's like unclasping a bra.

TALIESIN: How do you do that?

LIAM: That's 30.

MATT: (laughs) 30? With a single moment, you, actually feeling with one thumb, you're feeling the vibration of each tumbler on the inside of the lock and as each one progressively clicks, you eventually get to the fourth one before (tink) and it hangs open loosely, within a matter of 40 seconds. You wish other people would have seen that happen because that was pretty, pretty cool maneuver. But you know, at least.

LIAM: Come on up. It wasn't even locked.

ALL: Aw.

(laughter)

MATT: He's so modest. Oh no, we lost Ashley! We lost an Ashley.

LIAM: I've got it. I've got it.

MARISHA: Cleric down.

MATT: As you all climb back up–

LAURA: Stealth, stealth, stealth, everybody. I cast Pass Without a Trace.

MARISHA: Oh. She's going to call back. She said we turned into robots. She disconnected.

MATT: Okay, gotcha.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

MATT: Okay, good. So–

LAURA: Wait, wait! How's Trinket going to climb up this rope, y'all? Polymorph?

MARISHA: I do have Polymorph.

SAM: Oh no.

MARISHA: We need to make him tinier, anyway. What do you want him to be?

SAM: We should leave him.

LAURA: Shut up!

MATT: Which, for the record, Trinket going through this tunnel looks like the cleaner in Labyrinth. It fills the entire tunnel. He's like (bear noises) having to pull his way through.

LAURA: Okay, what if we polymorph him into a very small raccoon? But he's got hands, you know, so he can hold things?

LIAM: What about a wolverine or a badger?

MARISHA: I have a question.

SAM: Honey badger doesn't care.

LAURA: Honey badger don't give a shit. It just takes what it wants.

MARISHA: If I polymorph Trinket, can I then use Beast Sense to be able to see through him? Would that be able to work?

MATT: What does Beast Sense do?

MARISHA: Beast Sense lets me see through the eyes of a beast.

MATT: You can do that with Trinket regardless.

MARISHA: But does it stack with Polymorph? And if he is like polymorphed into– I mean, I guess he's still a beast.

MATT: If beast sense is a concentration, then no. You will lose one to do the other.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: Yeah, and Beast Sense is concentration.

LAURA: Is Polymorph a concentration?

MATT: Yes, it is. So one or the other.

MARISHA: It's fine. But if I turned him into a bird, I can make him an aerial scout, is what I was thinking, like the wargs in Game of Thrones.

MATT: Or you can become one yourself. What are you doing?

MARISHA: I will make him a cute little sewer rat or like–

LAURA: No! He can hang on to me.

TRAVIS: Oh my god, make him something!

LAURA: Will he still get his armor?

MARISHA: Can I make him a lemur? (laughs)

MATT: You can.

LAURA: But lemurs are slow, dude. Raccoons are cool.

MARISHA: How about a red panda?

LAURA: Red panda!

MARISHA: I'm going to make him a red panda!

TALIESIN: Red panda. That's cool.

SAM: Wait, wait, wait, can a red panda climb a rope ladder any better than–

MATT: As the rest of the party climbs their way up, during Vex and Keyleth's bickering over what form Trinket should take, Trinket, if you've ever seen a bear roll its eyes before, this is the moment. As it fills the entire tunnel it goes (bear noises), with a kill-me-now expression. Eventually, you decide on a red panda.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's a good breed.

MATT: The mystical red panda from Wildemount. You extend your hand and Trinket's form shrinks into this small, temporarily elevated red panda, and falls to the ground.

LAURA: Aww, I love you! He's so cute! I pick him up and I tell him to hang on to me.

MATT: He does and wraps around your neck like the foxtail you already have there. You guys climb up and as you emerge, you see now, you're at the very, very back of an alleyway that is buttressed against the inside of the outer wall. So you're inside the city. You're in this small, very, very well-out-of-the-way alleyway, this back alley that ends at your outhouse, as well as a secondary one next to you that appears to be functional, based on the smell. And there is trash and junk back here. It's definitely one of the forgotten corners of Emon.

TALIESIN: You have your map.

SAM: Yeah, we're right here. Where's Gilmore's again?

MATT: Abdar's Promenade, to the northeastern–

LAURA: Stealth. Can we all stealth?

SAM: That's up here. Wow, we have to cross the entire city.

MARISHA: And we've got Pass Without a Trace.

SAM: But we could go along the wall.

LAURA: Let's do it.

SAM: All the way along the outside wall.

MARISHA: Do we want to go through the city or along the outside of the city? Are we going to take the long way or the direct path?

LIAM: The long way, the slow way, the careful way.

SAM: Take the beltway?

LIAM: Stealthy.

TALIESIN: Stealthy.

MATT: All right. Everyone roll stealth, please.

LAURA: You add ten because–

SAM: We add ten?

MATT: Ashley, stealth for you as well with disadvantage, but you add ten. Still there, Ashley?

LAURA: Oh, no!

TRAVIS: Ashley?

LIAM: I'm hanging up on you. I still love you, but I'm going to hang up.

MATT: All right, so, call back, and you guys, stealth checks?

TALIESIN: 39.

MARISHA: 19.

SAM: 25.

LAURA: 33.

TRAVIS: 23.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: You added ten?

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Add ten to it. Pass Without a Trace.

LIAM: 35, then, motherfuckers.

TALIESIN: Wait, 29, sorry.

MATT: Okay, there we go, and 19 with the plus ten?

MARISHA: Yeah, I rolled shitty.

MATT: Okay, all right. There we go. Hi, Ashley.

MARISHA: Sorry, Ashley.

LAURA: Can she hear?

LIAM: (robot voice) Hello, I am Pike. I am happy to be here.

TALIESIN: I forgot you can do that.

LIAM: Ashley rolled a four. She texted me.

LAURA: So 14.

MATT: Okay, so you guys step out of this alleyway and the first thing that catches you is the visual.

LAURA: Chained back up the outhouse.

MATT: Okay, so you chained it back and put the lock back on. As you step back out into the center of the first road you come across, the crossroads to this alleyway, you look up and can see there are, even through the night, a good two dozen streams of smoke billowing out from different parts of the city, where, throughout the entire evening, there has been buildings burning, crumbling, or fires of indeterminate origin throughout the city that are still spreading. There's the perpetual smell of smoke and dust in the air, and you can see every now and then, the wind will blow a bit and a little bit of ash will be thrown up in the air and come to rest. Much of what you see around you is intact, the buildings directly around you on this side, everything seems intact, though there's very little signs of life on this immediate corner. It looks like either everyone is inside or this part of the city has been abandoned or people are keeping out of the streets at this point. So, what do you guys want to do?

LAURA: Go along the wall to the other side to get to Gilmore's?

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Sneaky.

MATT: All right. You guys coast along the wall, to the very southward side, trudging up across the main gate, which as you can see now– there's normally a very heavy guard presence on the south gate to Emon. The gate is currently partially opened and you can see a bunch of the guards as well as a number of individuals in the city currently frozen in place in the midst of a sudden bit of chaos. You can see the guards with shields and pikes at the ready, screaming and looking up into the sky, their final moment trapped now in that frozen horrifying visage. You see people running, trying to make their way out of the gate, and couldn't quite get past in time and the gate itself has a large sheet of ice that is frozen against it that's slowly thawing. You can see the ground around them is turning muddy with all the moisture that's slowly melting away as the day progresses.

LAURA: And they're like the people in our keep? They're past the point of healing?

MATT: You can certainly check and inquire.

LIAM: They've been here for eight hours at least. They're gone.

TRAVIS: Yeah, leave it.

LAURA: I want to see if Cure Wounds is– I'm going to just try?

MARISHA: I assist.

MATT: Okay. So you go up and reach out and cast Cure Wounds on one of the frozen bodies, and your hands touch it and you can feel the ice because it's still very cold to the touch, though it's damp and the moisture is gathering and dripping down off certain elbows and portions of the body that are the lowest. You complete the spell and feel the warmth of the cure spell extend past your fingers with no sign of reaction or life within the body. This poor woman, apron on, looking over her shoulder running, holding what little belongings she had, is there, her final moment captured as she stares off in the direction of where you assume Vorugal swooped towards the south gate, before making their way towards Greyskull Keep the night before.

TRAVIS: Let's go before we're discovered, quickly.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: As you guys tread across the main thoroughfare, and it's the one point where you are inescapably out in the open, and as you're taking a moment touching the corpse of this woman frozen in place, Vex, you catch out the corner of your eye what appears to be a figure stepping towards you in the center of the street.

SAM: Wait, you see someone?

MATT: As you notify the rest of the group, you guys look over and you can see now, stepping from one of the alleyways, there is a humanoid figure walking through the road, cloak draped behind in the back, hood up, wide shoulders, and is not seemingly making any attempt to be unseen or really hiding their presence. This is someone who is beelining for your group in this moment.

MARISHA: He's heading towards us?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Yeah, does he see us?

MATT: Heading right towards you.

LAURA: I take out a arrow and say, stop!

MARISHA: I do flame hands.

MATT: Okay. The figure stops for a moment and pulls the hood back, and you can see now, revealed, a– looking humanoid but the features are more intense and thick. A very square jaw. The skin has a slight grayish-green tint to it. What looks like one tooth underneath, and this is a half-orc individual. Wearing a black cloak and very simple studded leather armor. If our guest would like to step on to the stage.

ALL: Ooh!

LIAM: Yeah! Mixing it up!

MATT: So, just to let you guys know, we have a guest joining us this evening. The illustrious and talented Jason Charles Miller, who is an–

SAM: Where is he going?

MATT: Between you guys right there. Yeah, there you go.

MARISHA: Come squeeze.

MATT: Jason is going to join us for this evening of gameplay.

JASON: My first action will require me to get up, so.

MATT: Okay, well, get low for a moment, so I can introduce you. So you can say hey! This is Jason. Jason is a voice actor, actually the voice of Drizzt Do'Urden right now, if you know who–

MARISHA: Oh, shut the fuck up! I didn't know that!

MATT: Yeah, so that's pretty awesome. As well as the writer of our theme song, our Critical Role theme song, which we are working on a new intro right now. And in the near future we will have that for you guys.

MARISHA: You can download it on iTunes.

MATT: Yes, you can. We will have that coming out soon but yes, so Jason, thanks for joining us tonight.

JASON: Sure, thanks for having me.

MARISHA: Hi, Jason.

MATT: We'll give you the full, whole– at end the show, but nonetheless the half-orc approaches, lowers his hood.

JASON: Okay, so I actually start speaking in Thieves' Cant to Vex here, so I've got to whisper something.

MATT: Okay, go for it. So as the orc lowers his hood, he begins to–

MARISHA: Why don't you make him come over here?

LAURA: Who are you talking about?

JASON: Vax, sorry, the– The person that can speak Thieves' Cant.

LAURA: I can speak Thieves' Cant, too.

JASON: But I'm talking to him.

TALIESIN: Thieves can't speak. Ooh.

MATT: And whispers to the two of them.

MARISHA: These are tiny tables.

MATT: So suddenly the orc begins to utter a series of strange sounds like double talk and gibberish.

LAURA: I'm reading his damn lips as he's doing it.

MATT: All right, and you, knowing Thieves' Cant, pick up the details. So you can let her know as well. The rest of you see this orc speaking nonsense and a very brief reaction from the twins.

MARISHA: Look, he's been under a lot of stress, all right?

LIAM: He's trying to get us to join scientology, that's all.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Our thetan levels are off the charts right now.

TALIESIN: My thetan level's at 16 right now.

LAURA: You're a member of the Clasp, then?

JASON: Yes.

MARISHA: Oh.

JASON: You're the first faces I recognize. I've been hiding here since the attack.

MARISHA: You recognized us, why? How?

JASON: I'm a member of the Clasp.

LIAM: Did you all make it?

MARISHA: We were there recently.

LIAM: What's left?

JASON: I don't know. I was on a mission up above ground when the attack happened. I'm trying desperately to get back to see who is left. My name is Garthok.

SAM: Garthok?

JASON: Yes.

SAM: We are Vox Machina. I am the de facto leader. My name is Scanlan Shorthalt.

JASON: I know who you are, and you are the first people I've made myself visible to. You're the first people that I recognize or even know that I can trust.

MARISHA: Have you been through the city? How much is left?

JASON: It is not– it's indescribable. There is incredible destruction.

MARISHA: Have you encountered any more survivors?

MATT: Which you have. As you walked through the city, you have noticed there are many survivors of the town. A lot of them have kept inside, but there are a number that are actually running through and looting the town.

LAURA: Ugh.

LIAM: What was your name again?

JASON: Garthok.

LIAM: Garthok. What of the Spirelings? What of the leaders of the Clasp?

JASON: All I know is what I knew before the attack.

LIAM: We've come here looking for survivors. We don't intend to stay long. You are welcome to come with us.

LAURA: Are you one of the people looting? You said you saw other people doing the same.

JASON: I'm not a looter. I was on a classified mission above ground, and now that's all gone to shit basically, so I'm trying to get back to our headquarters.

SAM: Garthok, are you familiar with tunnels or secret passageways around the city at all?

JASON: You could say yes. Absolutely.

SAM: Are we near any?

LAURA: We need to get across town and not be seen.

MARISHA: We are trying to get to the Abdar's Promenade.

LIAM: Wait, show me your brand.

MATT: He reveals the back of the cloak and you do indeed see the brand of the Clasp. The same one you carry between the shoulder blades.

MARISHA: Do you know each other?

(laughter)

LIAM: It's a pretty big organization.

MATT: There are certain tunnels that traverse underneath Emon, specifically amongst the Clasp. However, two of the locations to the south of the city, one in the Graveyard District and one in the Temple District, which you guys are adjacent to right now, those are the two that immediately come to mind. The Temple one that you are nearby seeking has been completely demolished and is unusable. There's one to the Graveyard District. There's one north of Abdar's Promenade that could possibly be of use to you. Those are the only ones that come to mind that are nearby.

TALIESIN: Well, if we're heading that way anyway. We stop by Gilmore's and we do need to check in with the Clasp, anyway.

LIAM: Maybe.

TALIESIN: They're going to be helpful.

LIAM: Maybe.

TRAVIS: Are we out in the open right now?

MATT: You are out in the open right now.

TRAVIS: Can we fucking get inside, please?

LIAM: We need to get to Gilmore's Glorious Goods. Do you know where that is?

JASON: Yes, I can lead you there.

LIAM: Underground?

JASON: I could, if the temple entrance wasn't destroyed.

MARISHA: I might be able to clear it out.

TRAVIS: You want to walk towards the temple?

SAM: We're near the Temple District now.

MARISHA: We can take the tunnels under–

SAM: But if the entrance to the tunnel was destroyed, it's best not to risk it. Let's keep going.

LAURA: And we'll make a lot of noise clearing it out.

TALIESIN: That's true.

LAURA: Best to skirt.

LIAM: Building to building.

SAM: Are you okay with stealth?

MARISHA: I might be able to tunnel us to the closest tunnel system, from right here.

LAURA: Do it then.

MATT: How do you intend to do this?

MARISHA: Move Earth. Sixth level.

LAURA: Whoa, you're using a 6th-level spell right now?

MARISHA: Do we want to do it now?

SAM: We're not near the entrance to the tunnel right now.

LAURA: No, let's just stealth it. Yeah, save that.

TALIESIN: We can save that for an emergency.

MARISHA: I'll save it.

MATT: Okay. It will take you, at the rate at which it moves earth, it will take you probably a good hour to two hours to–

MARISHA: To get to the tunnels?

MATT: To get to any sort of system that he may be referring to.

MARISHA: All right, let's just walk. We'll walk faster.

MATT: All right, so, Garthok, I'm going to have you roll a stealth check to move alongside the rest of the group.

JASON: Great. 25.

MARISHA: Does he benefit from Pass Without a Trace?

MATT: No, he arrived after the spell was cast, but as you guys move forward, he also dives into the shadows in a very similar way that you've seen Vax do before. This orc definitely understands the resources of light and the absence of it.

TALIESIN: He's played some Assassin's Creed.

MATT: (laughs) He's hitting you all up in the shoulders for change. All right, so–

LIAM: Is that a dice game?

TALIESIN: It's a band, they're very good.

MATT: So, as you guys push forward, staying towards the outskirts of the city, you do come across, on the outer area of the Temple District, a humble neighborhood that has been completely reduced to cinders and ash. There is probably a good eight to ten buildings that are piles of black, still burning wood, dust, and broken stone. You can see on the outskirts of some of these piles of rubble, bodies lying in the street, the skin charred black and cracked as the face and arms are curled up in the final moments of agony. You avert your gaze and continue pressing onward and you can see now, many of these large temples in the center of the city, you can see folks gathered to them and clustered on the inside, you can hear people shouting and folks trying to deal with this current circumstance befalling the town. You continue to move out of the sight of those clusters of survivors that are going to their various deities for aid and comfort. You push further towards the center of the Temple District. You do catch out of the left the sound of breaking glass, specifically to you, Vex, in the distance. As you glance over and look, you can see four individuals climb out of a window with sacks over their shoulders. They all gesture to each other and go running off northward, deeper into the city, carrying whatever goods they managed to acquire from the interior. And as you progress, you do notice a lot of windows have been broken. You don't know if from the inside or outside. Some may have been from the impact of the attack, some may have been from individuals that have been moving from building to building. It's hard to say at this point, there's such disarray around you. As you skirt along the very far end of the Temple District, you see a portion of the neighborhood now is in itself encased in ice, like the individuals you saw at the south gate. This is another area where Vorugal made its way through, and you can see another array of icy coffins of other individuals who were trying to escape but were locked in place. You can see a small group of living Emon residents that are currently gathering the dead and trying to take them out of the open and possibly give them a proper burial, whether it be people they know or not, but there is a look on each of their faces of desolate acceptance of what is happening and trying to process this–

TRAVIS: Can I slink back to Vax? And I say: you still think that what was inside that skull is worse than all of this?

LIAM: I think it is probably equal to this. We've been burned before, Grog. This was going to happen whether we wanted it to or not.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but we could have done something about it. I walk on.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Big if, big man.

MATT: The clouds are beginning to gather up over the sky as you continue forward and the little bit of sunshine that came through this morning is now covered in coming rain clouds. Which may be a boon to those buildings that still burn and possibly an annoyance to a giant, fire-based red dragon in the center of the city but, nevertheless, the weather is quickly shifting. As you begin pushing into Abdar's Promenade, you can see the central bazaar before you, the memory of it, this sprawling landscape of multicolored tents and carts and what was this bustling marketplace is all closed down and a portion of it appears to have been torn through. You can see broken bits of wood and wagon wheels tossed asunder like, apparently, one of these dragons may have smashed into the center and let loose its fury. You can see spatters of blood across elements of the ground, but no sign of a body, as there are a few groups going around, trying to gather what they can, but the place is also picked clean. You notice a lot of these tents and carts are empty of any real valuables. You are uncertain whether or not the proprietors took it themselves or they have been picked clean by looters.

LAURA: Scavengers.

MATT: You begin to approach, with a very, very nervous heart, the corner of the bazaar that leads to Gilmore's place. As you approach, the nervousness is met with the visual of a large stack of black smoke that rises from that direction. As you push through with increased haste towards that area of the bazaar, you see Gilmore's Glorious Goods, as well as two other adjacent buildings, completely destroyed. Piles of rubble and what looks to be a group of about ten individuals that are currently picking through the rubble and gathering what they can, moving over wood and brick.

LIAM: I stop stealthing and walk right into it and start shouting, (shouting) get the fuck out of here! Get out!

MATT: As you do that, all of them turn over, looks and one says, “Hey, get your own shit, all right?”

LIAM: Move on now! Now! Now!

MATT: He stops and looks about the other one. The other guys looking over their shoulders and, “Look, we're all just trying to stay alive here, okay?”

TALIESIN: I pull out my gun. You heard the man.

TRAVIS: Yeah, big sword comes out, too.

MARISHA: Fire hands.

LAURA: Don't test us.

MARISHA: We've had a really shitty day.

MATT: “You've had a shitty day?”

MARISHA: We've all had a shitty day

MATT: “Well, let's make it all sorts more shitty.” And he pulls a shortsword from his side and all the rest of them pull their blades out and they say, “Look, we saw this first. We're going to bring it to him and save ourselves.”

LIAM: I'll fucking gut you like a fish–

LAURA: Stop!

LIAM: –and take your innards–

LAURA: Stop!

LIAM: – out your mouth. I will not!

LAURA: Stop. You will take it to him?

MARISHA: Who's him?

LAURA: Thordak?

MATT: They all, with their weapons out, tense their shoulders and say, “There's only one way we are going to survive this.”

LAURA: Listen. There's so much more available to you, buildings up that way. Not worth your time right here.

MATT: (laughs) “Honey, we've already picked plenty clean from this pile. This is our third time back.”

TRAVIS: It'll be your last time back if you're not careful.

LAURA: Is it worth your death? Bringing this to him, is it worth your death? Because you will die here.

MATT: “You know what, I think I stand a better chance against the lot of you than with that thing.”

MARISHA: You just thought wrong.

LAURA: Step on and go find loot somewhere else. At least then you can present it to him and not die here. Don't be stupid.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Vex, please let me off the chain.

LAURA: Ugh, I rolled so poorly. Anybody want to assist me?

MATT: It's a little late for that.

LAURA: (sings) How about ten?

MATT: Okay. You can see as he's holding his shortsword to the side, goes, “You know, you may be stupid, but there are other stupid things in this town, like walking in the middle of an ambush, dear.” At which point, a dagger comes past–

LAURA: I've got passive perception!

MATT: I know.

LAURA: Motherfuck!

MATT: You instinctually move your head out the way as it (whoosh) past you as you see another individual that was keeping low to the rubble flung a dagger at you, and the rest of them pull their weapons ready and are about to enter a fray. I need everyone to roll initiative.

MARISHA: Fuck these assholes!

TALIESIN: This is everything I wanted.

LAURA: Natural fucking 20.

MARISHA: Therapeutic ass-kicking. That's pretty good.

SAM: They may win.

MARISHA: Nah. Fuck that. We're way more pissed off–

SAM: They work for a dragon.

LAURA: Do they? They're just looters.

TALIESIN: This is going to feel really good.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: But they're innocent.

MARISHA: Yeah, we're not going to kill them. We'll just beat their faces in.

LAURA: Garthok, did you lead us here? Did you know about this?

JASON: No.

SAM: I believe him.

MARISHA: Insight check. Can I insight check him?

TALIESIN: We literally just walked to where we were going. He lead us precisely where we wanted to go. There's nothing clever about that trap.

MATT: All right, so, placement, guys. Where would you like to be on this one?

TALIESIN: I suppose we'd be hanging back a bit. Well, you got up in their face, so you're–

MARISHA: The three of us got up in their face.

TRAVIS: I was walking with Vax.

TALIESIN: I was hanging back a bit.

MARISHA: I think Scanlan and Pike were towards the back. I'm next to Percy.

MATT: And Vex, you're up here?

LAURA: Sure, why not.

MATT: You were up in their face right here.

LAURA: In his face and I have Trinket on my back.

SAM: Which one is Jason Charles Miller?

MATT: Jason is–

TALIESIN: Gart-Garthluk.

JASON: Garthok.

TALIESIN: Garthok, Garthok, I'm close. I'm getting it, Garthok.

MATT: Garthok, where do you want to be?

JASON: I'm ready to tangle.

MATT: All right, we'll put you over here, in the middle of the group being watched. The rest of these thugs are all currently sitting over in this rubble.

MARISHA: What do you think, Garthok? I don't know, what do you think, Waynethok?

JASON: (laughs) Party on, Garthok. Party on, Waynethok.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So, I would like–

SAM: Should we be at all concerned about drawing attention to ourselves?

LAURA: Too late for that.

SAM: No, I mean, like, giant Fireballs or anything?

LAURA: Probably stay away from huge magical effects.

LIAM: Fireball straight into the sky!

MATT: Yeah, there you go, that'd be perfect. All right, so, initiatives 25 to 20 or higher?

LAURA: 27. Natural 20.

SAM: Natural 27.

TALIESIN: 25.

MATT: Percy. 20 to 15?

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: Keyleth. All right, 15 to ten? What do we got?

JASON: 14.

SAM: 12.

LIAM: 12.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: All right, so we got–

TRAVIS: Two 12s and two 14s.

MATT: And then 12 and 12. All righty. And is Pike not able to–

LIAM: I'll try!

LAURA: Pike lost completely all connection.

SAM: Pike fell down in some rubble.

MATT: I'll roll for her. (laughs) Pike's going last. I figure she probably would have rolled last anyways, so Pike is last.

LAURA: Yeah, I think she said she was probably going to have to leave until the break until we can figure out the tech.

MATT: Gotcha! Okay, no worries. Top of the round. Vex, since you are the one who got the first attack and immediately reacting to it. You're up. What are you doing?

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on that motherfucker in front of me. And then I'm going to cast Conjure Barrage at all of them in front of me, like a big cone effect.

MATT: Okay. Okay, so, Conjure Barrage is your action, so that's your full thing. So, at which direction are you doing it?

LAURA: Just towards all the guys in front of me. I want to get as many in the cone as I can.

MATT: Okay, you probably need to move this way or else you're going to hit your brother as well.

LAURA: Oh, that's my brother.

MATT: That's your brother right there.

LAURA: I can see what's happening now. Yeah, I move over then I–

MATT: That's a 60 foot?

LAURA: It's a 60-foot cone.

MATT: Yeah, right there. So all four of them are affected. Great.

LAURA: Great. So, Trinket is still on my back. He's a red panda.

MATT: Yeah. Until she breaks concentration.

LAURA: I fire it and I shoot forward and that's it, huh? I don't have to, like–

MATT: Conjure Barrage, you roll damage and they get to save.

LAURA: Okay, cool. So I'm going to cast that at– oh, it's already at third level, okay.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Whoa. 15? And then I add my type anything? Or it's just 15.

MATT: It's just 15, and then you add 1d6 for the one dude for Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: For my Hunter's Mark. Do I add my Bracers of Archery, though, on that?

MATT: Technically– You know what, sure. Because it is technically a ranged attack. I'll let it happen, sure.

LAURA: 17 and an additional six on–

MATT: On that guy? Okay, what's your DC of your spells?

LAURA: 15.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Do I add my spell attack bonus?

MATT: You don't have to roll to attack. This just happens and they have to try and save to get out of the way.

LAURA: I understand.

MATT: Cool. All right so, that's 17 damage to– those two take half there.

LAURA: I don't understand.

LIAM: It will sink in in a few episodes. It's fine.

MATT: All right. Cool. All right so, as you release this spraying torrent of arrows down the way. It fires outward. All of them all of a sudden have to put their arms up to instinctually defend themselves with arrows piercing bits of their armor and ricochet off. It's not horribly damaging, but enough to sweep into all of them and they all immediately look up angrily at each other, weapons at the ready to go ahead and get vengeance.

LAURA: I take the rest of my moment to back up against a wall.

MATT: Okay. Right there. All righty, Percy, you're up next.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to Hex the one that she Hunter's Marked.

MATT: Oh man.

LAURA: Fuck that guy.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: (laughs) Fuck that one guy in particular.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to– Where am I? Oh, there I am. I'm going to run towards that other wall to the left.

MATT: This way?

TALIESIN: Yep, all the while taking a few shots at that bastard who I just hexed.

MATT: As you are moving you're like (gunshots). Okay. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Oh, and Sharpshooter shots, because that's funnier. So that's, ugh–

MARISHA: But you're Percy.

TALIESIN: Yeah, so that's not– That's 14 to hit.

MATT: 14 hits.

TALIESIN: Should I just roll all three shots?

MATT: Yeah, roll three shots.

TALIESIN: That's 20. That hits.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: And 18. That hits.

MATT: Yeah, so go ahead and roll damage for all three shots, and an additional 1d6 to each shot.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah. That's ten, 26, 27 points. 26 points plus one necrotic. That's on the other end of things.

MARISHA: The opposite! (laughs) The exact opposite.

TALIESIN: Irony. 17 points plus six necrotic.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And for my final roll. 17, 18, 19, 20, 25 points plus six necrotic.

MARISHA: That guy is dead, right?

MATT: All right so, as you go running by (gunshots) each shot as it impacts, the guy who's already dealing with the array of arrows in his chest, each shot that blows across his shoulders is followed by a plume of black-purple smoke that blasts off each impact until it leaves a hole off this shoulder. This actually blows this arm off from the impact. And the third one just destroys the upper part of his head and he slinks back onto the rubble.

TALIESIN: I move my Hex to the next guy and point at him as I'm running.

LAURA: I move my Hunter's Mark to the next guy because the other one went to zero.

TRAVIS: That's some Hateful Eight shit right there.

MATT: (laughs) All right, you have to use a bonus action to mark a new creature. Both you guys do.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: So those will be– Those move over when– (gunshot impact) He is blown off the map essentially.

LAURA: It said when it went down to zero, I could move it to the next person.

MATT: If the target drops to zero hit points, you can use a bonus action on subsequent turns of yours to mark a new creature.

LAURA: I understand.

MATT: I know.

LIAM: There's so many rules, guys!

MATT: All right, it's their turn now. So, out the side, after that final shot, you hear a little guttural grunt off to your left as you see this dwarf with a giant hammer come rushing up. “You! "How dare you!” And comes swinging off towards your direction there, off to the side. These guys here are going to move in. Both of these are going to run up to Grog, being the larger there.

TRAVIS: Just signed your death certificate.

MATT: That guy comes up to Keyleth. These two come rushing around.

LAURA: Oh shit, there's two more?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: I didn't see those guys.

MATT: No, you didn't.

LAURA: I saw one of them, but I didn't see all of them.

MATT: That guy can only get that far, so he's going to go ahead and throw. All right, so–

LAURA: They're going to get sneak attacks on me.

MATT: Indeed. All right, so, first and foremost, the dwarf comes up against you, Percy. That's going to be an 18 to hit.

TALIESIN: My armor class is 18.

MATT: So it hits, yeah. And it's going to hit you again this time. That's going to be 15, so only–

TALIESIN: I was about to say, can I take that first 18 and make it– nah, you know what, I'll take the hit, never mind.

MATT: Okay. You take eight points of bludgeoning damage from the smack of the mace.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Slap-a the mace.

MATT: Two guys against Grog now, their maces out as well. Because they have pack tactics, they both have advantage on attacks against you. So with that, that's a 19.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: Hits. And the other one, with advantage, is a natural 20.

MARISHA: Ouch.

MATT: You're not raging yet, so you take full damage. All right, ten points of bludgeoning damage on the first hit. And the second one, that's going to be 15 points of bludgeoning damage. So a total of 25 points of bludgeoning damage as both of them whack you with maces from each side, with the first round of attacks. Now the second round of attacks, because they attack twice.

LAURA: Ugh.

MATT: With advantage. That's a 21, which hits.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: And a 15.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: So you then take seven points of bludgeoning damage after that.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Cool. So that's two. There's one against you, Vax. He doesn't get advantage against you. He rolls a 17.

LIAM: I'm going to use Uncanny Dodge– No! It doesn't hit because I've got both daggers out.

MATT: Oh yeah, because you get bonus AC.

LIAM: I have three armor classes depending on if my boots are on or my daggers are in my hands.

MATT: Right. Okay, cool. Good to know. All right, so then leading up to that, there's one against you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: That's going to be a 14 and a natural 20. That is going to be 15 points of bludgeoning damage against you.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: Whack! As the mace swings past and catches you right across the chin, the impact causes your head to snap for a second. A very minor moment of whiplash, as you look back and feel the blood trickling down.

MARISHA: Ah!

MATT: Yeah, and then there's two against you, Vex. Which both get advantage because of pack tactics. 13, even with advantage. The second attack is 23, and the other one does two attacks, 22 and 17. 17 doesn't hit? Okay, so that's three attacks on you that hit.

LAURA: No, two attacks hit.

MATT: Oh, two attacks. You take nine points of bludgeoning damage and six points of bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: Okay!

MATT: And the one that's over here, there's nobody immediately around for it pull its mace out. Instead, he pulls out his heavy crossbow, lines up, and aims at you, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, what? Who, me?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: But I'm– Oh.

MATT: And that is 21 to hit.

SAM: That hits.

MATT: You then suffer ten points of piercing damage as the heavy crossbow bolt sinks itself into your shoulder and the armor takes the brunt of it but you can still feel the pain of it piercing just about an inch through.

SAM: Damn it.

MATT: That ends their go. Next up, we have Keyleth.

MARISHA: All right, I'm really pissed off at this guy who just decked me in the face. So I'm going to cast Call Lightning.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: And can I reach out and, the guy who hit me, can I reach out and grab him and call it right into him?

TRAVIS: Like conductor-style.

MARISHA: Yeah. Just grab his face after he just punched me.

MATT: Okay. So, the minute you do that, the Polymorph fades and Trinket turns into a full bear.

MARISHA: Dope! Even cooler! Totally meant to do that.

MATT: You can, but know wherever the bolt hits, it's everything in a five-foot area. So you can hit the bolt behind him–

MARISHA: Nah, I want to–

MATT: You want to take it?

MARISHA: I want to take it.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I'm pissed the fuck off.

MATT: So, as you put your hands up, the clouds that are already forming from the storm–

MARISHA: I was going to say, I get extra damage, right?

MATT: Yeah. They begin to grow darker and directly above you and as you bring your hands up, your flames slowly drifting off your fingertips, you bring your hand down, and as you do, a bolt of lightning comes streaking out of the sky, blasting right into the guy in front of you. Go ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: Is it four? Do I get an extra d10? Is that what I get, or–

MATT: You get an additional d10, yes. 4d10 lightning damage.

MARISHA: Do I get anything extra because I'm holding on to him? Because I'm channeling it?

MATT: I'll say no, that's more–

TALIESIN: Fire damage?

MATT: No, that would be a different attack, unfortunately. You're holding him and the flames are licking up into his face. So it's a scary visual.

MARISHA: 25 points.

MATT: 25 points of damage. He did not make the save, I believe. Rolled a 15. What's your DC on that spell?

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: Yeah. So the bolt comes down and I need you to go ahead and make a save against your own spell.

MARISHA: Yep. Failed.

MATT: Okay, so you also take that damage.

MARISHA: Yep.

MATT: But it was cool.

MARISHA: I use my bonus action to go Minxie.

LAURA: Whoa, I like it! We ain't seen Minxie in a while.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's been a while.

LAURA: Nice!

MATT: As the guy's looking, reeling from the impact of the blast, he pulls away, smoke coming off his chest. He gets his mace ready as he looks up and sees you change into this giant white sabretooth tiger with these claws–

MARISHA: I get a little bit of foam going, you know.

LAURA: I like that right before it he saw a giant bear appear.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, it just got somehow weirder.

MARISHA: This means I can finally use my gift from Mary!

MATT: All right. That ends Keyleh's turn. Garthok, you're up.

JASON: Great, I move over and take that one on–

MATT: Over here?

JASON: Keep going straight. No, no, the other way. No. Okay now. Sorry. Yes. No, wait, okay, I was going to go to–

MATT: You have laser pointers at the table.

SAM: Someone give him a laser pointer.

MARISHA: Sorry, I had it and I was distracted.

JASON: There.

MATT: Oh, right here? Got you, okay. So you rush up to there.

JASON: And I flank. Since they're engaged, can I use my sneak attack?

MATT: Yeah, if you hit, you hit with the sneak attack. So as you rush out very quickly, you see he pulls out a spear, like a short spear, but it's curved kris-like at the blade and it's smaller than most short spears you've seen. It's a custom piece of work. And he slides up and attempts to jam it into the thug in front of you.

LIAM and LAURA: Get it!

JASON: 15.

MATT: 15 hits. Go ahead and roll damage and sneak attack damage.

JASON: Hell yeah. So, let's see, I need some more d6s. Do you want me to do the sneak attack damage first or the weapon damage first, or add it all at the end?

MATT: Just add it all together and then add your modifier at the end.

MARISHA: Grr. I'm so excited.

MATT: Grog, you're on deck, so be ready.

MARISHA: This is what life is about, you guys.

MATT: This was the night Marisha took somebody's eyes out.

MARISHA: (laughs) I know, I know.

JASON: 28.

MATT: 28 points of damage. Nice! All righty. So, as the spear easily pierces past armor and you can see the haggard-looking woman then looks over and the spear itself is stuck in her midsection. As you withdraw it, you can see a gout of blood pour out afterward of the wound itself, leaving behind a pretty nasty–

JASON: My eyes widen in battle-lust.

(laughter)

MATT: Orc jaw quivers, the teeth exposed. Okay, is that your turn?

JASON: Yes.

MATT: Okay, you still have a bonus action if you wanted to disengage.

JASON: Oh, yeah. So I can disengage without attack of opportunity?

MATT: If you use disengage and then move past. You moved three spaces. You can disengage and move back four more spaces if you want to, with your speed. Your call. Or you can stay there and lock him in place.

JASON: You know what? I'm going to stay.

MATT: Okay, cool. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: After taking a few hits from the sacrificial lamb that stands between Vax and I, I unsheathe Craven Edge, feeling the goosebumps rush up my skin, and I look down at him and say, please run. And I draw the blade across my hand and I go into a frenzied rage.

(laughter)

MATT: All righty. At which point, the blood touching the blade, it curves down the obsidian and then sinks into the actual weapon. It doesn't even have a moment to drip before the blade seems to absorb the blood that you put on it.

TRAVIS: We're bonded. It's a match made in heaven. I would also like to use reckless attack as I take my three attacks at this piece of shit.

MATT: Well, it's a bonus action to rage, so you get two attacks this turn.

TRAVIS: Two attacks this turn.

MATT: Yeah. Reckless attack it up, man.

TRAVIS: That is a 19.

MATT: That hits. These are Great Weapon Master?

TRAVIS: Yes. And that is– not great, that's 11.

MATT: 11 still hits. These guys aren't very well-armored.

LAURA: Loser! Loser with your 11 AC!

TRAVIS: That's a 22 for the first one.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 19 on the second one.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And they both have to make the DC saving throw.

MATT: Both against the same individual?

TRAVIS: Yeah, same guy.

MATT: Makes the first save with a 19. Fails the second one. So the first strike streaks across. You can see it cuts a huge gash across the upper body as the burly-looking looter glances back at you (heavy breathing). Brings up a shortsword and is about to go in for the pierce, at which point you kick her away from you about a foot and draw the blade around, and this time you run the blade right into her torso, piercing her through. As she looks up at you, you can see her skin go pale as her strength is drawn into the blade. You get to add a point to your strength.

LAURA: What! How long does that last?

MATT: That lasts until your next short rest.

LAURA: Don't rest ever!

(laughter)

MATT: So yeah, your strength's now 18, so add plus one to your attack damage going forward.

TRAVIS: Plus one to damage?

MATT: Yeah. To hit and damage with your attacks. But you pull the blade out and she crumples to the ground.

LAURA: So for every person you hit, it makes it better and better and better!

TRAVIS: Can I look over my shoulder to the guy on the left and like, you're next!

MATT: You very much can. You can see the visual of this presentation seems to have shaken their resolve, though not enough to the point where they're backing down yet. The desperation kicks in. All right, that ends your turn, Grog? You're staying there?

TRAVIS: I'll stay there.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Okay, so the guy next to Percy is the dwarf?

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Okay. I will hand-cone it up and I will cast Dominate Person on him.

MATT: (laughs) Okay!

SAM: And I will try to bend him to my will.

MATT: That is a failed save and a half.

SAM: Okay, good.

MATT: We'll say for the purposes of that, we'll use the blue one. So, yeah. As a bonus action each turn, you can basically tell him what to do.

SAM: Okay. I will tell him to walk over to me and start emptying his pockets of anything he's looted. Straight-up.

(laughter)

MATT: The dwarf's face goes limp and drops the mace on the ground and looks over towards you, the eyes glazed over, and goes, “Certainly, Master. It would be my pleasure.” And begins to rifle through the pockets. Okay. You want to move anywhere or you staying where you are?

SAM: No, I'll stay there to accept my treasure.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Okay, so, I'm going to take the Dagger of Life-Stealing and I'm going to stab the person closer to you, yeah? So that's a 23.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: So we'll do that first. That is 11. No, that's ten. Ten. And then I'm going to use disengage as my bonus action and I'm going to pivot, roll around Grog along the south side of him, and spin around and stick the Keen Dagger into the neck of the guy behind him. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. And that is 24.

MATT: All righty. That hits.

LIAM: That's sneak attack. 11 plus this.

MATT: So wait, this is with your– did you click your Boots of Haste on this?

LIAM: No. So two attacks?

MATT: You get two attacks, but you used your bonus action to disengage, which would've been your second attack, so you wouldn't get–

LIAM: Oh, then I'm out. All right, I'm out.

MATT: Okay. So you move over there?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll use disengage and I'm going to back up against Grog.

MATT: Okay, right there? All right. You're still in combat with that person.

LIAM: Back-to-back with the big man.

MATT: Great, so you guys are like back-to-back right now, looking around.

LAURA: Awesome. Look at you buddies!

LIAM: Uh, not really.

MATT: Pike, your turn!

ASHLEY: Okay, does anybody need healing?

LAURA: Not yet!

TRAVIS: Fuck somebody up.

ASHLEY: Time for attack!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Am I close to the guy with the crossbow?

MATT: To which one? Crossbow, uh. You're about 20, 30 feet from him.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'd like to move up a little bit, because I'm going to Guiding Bolt him.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to do it at second level.

MATT: 2nd-level Guiding Bolt.

ASHLEY: But first I will roll for–

MATT: All righty. So what'd you roll to hit? With your spell attack modifier?

ASHLEY: I rolled a 14.

MATT: 14 hits. That hits, so go ahead and roll 5d6 radiant damage on him.

LAURA: Fuck. Guiding Bolt's pretty sick.

ASHLEY: Nice. Cool. 21.

MATT: 21, nice! So as you rush forward, keeping your mace to the side, you put the shield down and the holy symbol itself drifts off you for a moment and you focus for a second and without having to put your hands on it, a beam of divine energy bursts forward, slamming into the crossbow-wielding individual and seems to surround their torso, causing them to glow like a giant beacon that says hit me! They look down at this tiny armored gnome that knocked half their life out of their body with a bit of confusion, worry, and respect in a weird way. Well done, gnome.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MATT: Okay, does that end your turn?

ASHLEY: Can I try to intimidate him, to tell him to drop his bow?

MATT: Uh. As a bonus action, I'll let you do that, sure.

ASHLEY: All right. Drop your bow!

(laughter)

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll an intimidate check.

ASHLEY: Which I don't think I have any of that, let's see. Oh, this is going to be hilarious. 11!

MATT: 11. As you shout, the individual gives you a keen look and almost chuckles to himself, going, (laughs) “Silly gnome.”

ASHLEY: It was a joke! It was a joke.

MATT: Puts the crossbow up, aiming it right towards between the eyes.

ASHLEY: Oh no!

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Awesome. As my bonus action I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns, so my next attack that hits turns into a poof.

MATT: Burst, yes.

LAURA: Okay. So I'm going to do that and then I'm going to cast– I'm going to shoot– oh shit. Can I shoot through the guy in front of me or to the guy with the bolt? Or is that too hard?

MATT: You can, you could, I'd say. You're at disadvantage already because you're in melee with two individuals, so all your attacks are at disadvantage right now.

LAURA: Balls.

MATT: You can try and move away.

LAURA: But they would hit me?

MATT: They would attack you.

LAURA: I'm going to move back five feet.

MATT: Okay, so you jump back that way.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, that's two of them get swings at you. That's a natural two, so no. That is a natural eight, so 13, so misses you.

LAURA: Fuck both of you, as I back up. And then I shoot the arrow at the guy in the middle of the two.

MATT: Right there? All right, go for it.

LAURA: Okay. That is 22 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Okay, so. That means– I'm casting that at third level, so that's 3d10 of damage.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Right. And that's just my first attack.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Where's my other dice?

MATT: And it's 3d10 against the first one.

LAURA: Come on! That's seven, eight, nine.

MATT: Nine? All righty.

LAURA: Then, do I do that for each person or that's it?

MATT: No, you then roll a d10 and they have to make a dex saving throw to try and not get damage, so roll a d10.

LAURA: That's a ten.

MATT: They all fail, so did more damage to the guys around him than the actual–

LAURA: Nice. And then I'm going to move Trinket around. No, he's going to move up and attack the guy in front of him.

MATT: You've done a bonus and an action.

LAURA: Yeah, so I get to cast–

MATT: Oh, I see, so your attack second, third, and you get your one attack as part of the attack action.

LAURA: Right. So I wanted Trinket to do his Bestial Fury.

MATT: Okay, so move up now and do it to that–

LAURA: Yeah, he's doing Bestial Fury and claw that motherfucker.

MATT: Okay, this guy right there? Or that?

LAURA: That. No, the other one.

MATT: This one? All right. Go for it. So, as the bear that just appeared now rears back, you fire an arrow that explodes into a burst of sharpened wooden bits. As they all reel from the impact, the bear (roars) and Trinket rushes forward on his giant paws, releasing a torrent of claw strikes against one of the unsuspecting thugs.

LAURA: That's 14.

MATT: 14 hits.

LAURA: And then 2d4 plus seven.

MATT: Correct. You get two attacks with Trinket, by the way.

LAURA: Oh, sweet.

MATT: Because Trinket attacks twice when he does Bestial–

LAURA: That's 11 on the first.

MATT: 11 damage.

LAURA: And 13 on the second.

MATT: Okay. So Trinket runs forward and one claw tears the face off, jaw unhinged. The friend at the side looks horrified as Trinket then bears down with the secondary claw and takes the remainder of the head off the shoulders.

LAURA: Very nice, very nice.

SAM: Go Trinket.

MATT: Power in those claws. All right. That ends your turn?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Is that crossbow asshole still standing?

MATT: The crossbow?

TALIESIN: The guy who just laughed at our little gnome?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay. I've just noticed that my guy was going to hit me and then started acting weird, so taking a second to look around, I'm going to see that little laugh with the crossbow coming up and Indiana Jones that shit.

MATT: Okay. Are you putting your Hex on him?

TALIESIN: I'm putting my Hex on him first.

MATT: Okay, bonus action to do that.

TALIESIN: Sharpshooter shot to that guy.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Don't hit Pike, don't hit Pike.

TALIESIN: I'm not going to hit Pike.

SAM: She's right in the middle!

LIAM: Only if it's a one.

ASHLEY: It's okay, it's okay.

TALIESIN: Out of curiosity, I'm trying to remember, what's my fuck-up number, my misfire number for that gun?

MATT: The pistol?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: One.

TALIESIN: It's higher than one, I thought.

MATT: No, the pistol's the most basic one. It's one. But you rebuilt it, though.

TALIESIN: I did.

MATT: To not be that terrible. So now it's fine, it's normal.

TALIESIN: Oh, okay.

MATT: Yeah. Before you reconstructed it to try and fix the mistake and remove that additional attachment, it would have been one.

TALIESIN: Thank you, I was just checking, because I could've just rolled really poorly. Ten.

MATT: Ten misses, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm taking another–

MATT: Oh, there's the Guiding Bolt, right? It's all right. Yeah, missed the Guiding Bolt, so you have advantage on that attack, I'm pretty sure.

TALIESIN: Oh, so I'm going to roll it again.

LIAM: Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: You're welcome!

MARISHA: Same fucking roll.

TALIESIN: I don't know what happened. Okay. Ten. So that–

MATT: So that one fires and now you're out of bullets.

TALIESIN: I know, so now I'm going to reload and fire again.

MATT: Okay, so your second and third attack. Go for it.

MARISHA: Oh my god!

TALIESIN: I have advantage though, right?

MATT: You have advantage. I think you do, hold on, let me see.

MARISHA: There we go, that's better.

MATT: Hold on, hold on. Next attack, no, it does not have advantage. So that misses as well, probably.

ASHLEY: War God's Blessing!

MATT: So! War God's Blessing?

ASHLEY: Yeah, it adds ten to his roll. Attack roll.

MATT: Okay, so it now becomes a 20.

TALIESIN: Oh.

SAM: What is War God's Blessing?

MATT: So War God's Blessing is one of her cleric abilities, since she chose the war domain after going to sea for a while. The specifics of it, just so you guys are aware of it, and why it's so useful–

ASHLEY: It's something I forget about a lot.

TALIESIN: Oh, yay!

MATT: She can basically, as a reaction, grant plus ten to an attack roll.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that hit, then. That hits.

MATT: So go ahead and roll damage now. So, as you're about to aim, Pike looks over and sees you about to take the shot and concentrates for a moment and the front of your barrel begins to glow with divine light as you fire. The bullet itself actually is white-hot as it leaves the barrel.

TALIESIN: This is such a confused gun.

MATT: I know.

TALIESIN: Okay. That's not bad. That's 20 plus five necrotic.

MATT: Okay. The impact of the divine enchanted bullet hits the current dark-energy-hexed individual and in the blast of light versus dark the upper torso of the thug is incinerated. It is ash. The waist below visible as it slumps over, no longer visible.

MARISHA: That was awesome!

TALIESIN: And I'm going to start walking my way towards Keyleth's special friend. Yeah, about there.

MATT: There? Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm not running. I'm walking.

MATT: All right. It's now their turn. The dwarf now moves over, goes, “Of course.” And begins taking all of its weapons and throws its mace down and puts its crossbow at your feet, spends its entire turn emptying its pouch and handing you what gold and gems and things it gathered.

LAURA: This is the best thing ever!

MATT: And giving you everything with a big dwarvish smile underneath its crusty beard.

SAM: Thank you. You're doing a good service.

TALIESIN: Make him shave.

LAURA: That is mean.

TALIESIN: I know!

MATT: This one's going to attack Keyleth. So, the one attacking Keyleth. This is the one attacking you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah.

MATT: It saw you transform into Minxie. That's going to be, what's your AC?

MARISHA: As a tiger? Or no, I keep my AC, right? Or no, I take the tiger's AC.

MATT: It should be in your ability, your Wild Shape ability. I'm pretty sure you take it as the creature.

MARISHA: Then 11.

MATT: 11, that hits. Just making sure that's the case right now, real fast as we go over to this point.

MARISHA: I know I keep all of my brain stats, but I lose all my physical stats.

MATT: Correct. Yeah, you gain the AC of the creature as well.

MARISHA: Okay, so 11.

MATT: All right, so.

MARISHA: Oh no, wait, wait, wait, wait. 12.

MATT: 12 is the AC? First one misses, second one hits.

MARISHA: Oh, cool! Okay, cool.

MATT: It rolled 11 on the first attack. So, you do take 11 points of bludgeoning damage as the mace swings out and smacks into the side of your shoulder. You feel the impact, but it's nothing too harsh. There are two of them now that are trying to go against Grog, being the angry one that just bisected their ally. They have advantage on you because they are both pack tactics. The first attack is a 23.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: Second one is a natural 20. Third attack, with advantage, is 15.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: Misses. And the fourth and final one is a 17.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: So a hit and a natural 20. Okay, so that is nine reduced to five against you. And then 12 reduced to six, so you take 11 points of bludgeoning damage between the two of them trying to beat on this furious angry goliath individual. And then there's one over here that's attacking Trinket now that's right in front.

LAURA: He just saw Trinket rip somebody else's face off.

MATT: Yeah, and in doing so swings out with a 13. I'm pretty sure misses Trinket's AC.

LAURA: Oh, yeah it does. He's got a better armor class than me.

MATT: He swings out, shaken by what it just saw happen to its friend and then takes that anger and turns around, rolling a 23, which I'm pretty sure hits. The mace slams into the side of Trinket's armor with a resounding (loud impact), the actual echo of the metal impact audible in the immediate vicinity, dealing a total of seven points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket.

LAURA: He's resistant to bludgeoning damage because of his armor.

MATT: Yep, so that would make it four. All right, that ends their turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. Really pissed off at this guy still. I'm going to concentrate and bring down a bolt of lightning in front of him, or behind–

MATT: Right there?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Dragons can see bolts of lightning.

MARISHA: It's also a cloudy day.

SAM: All right, all right, that makes sense.

MATT: Second bolt of lightning strikes the ground behind the guy in front of you. He rolled a 20, so he did make his save I'm pretty sure against you. Roll 4d10. He takes half-damage.

MARISHA: So, okay. Six, ten, 21 points, so ten?

MATT: Ten points of damage.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to do an attack on him. Grr.

MATT: Uh, you have to use your action to pull the bolt down, though?

MARISHA: I thought it was bonus.

MATT: It should say on the spell. I'll double-check.

MARISHA: I thought you could do that with Call Lightning.

MATT: Call Lightning, uh. On each of your turns, you can use your action to call it down, so yeah. A bolt is what you got.

MARISHA: Okay, that's fine.

MATT: Okay. However, the individual now is twice hit by lightning and is looking extremely rough and barely standing on his two feet. Is that your turn?

MARISHA: I can't do anything else, can I?

MATT: Okay, Garthok, you're up.

JASON: Garthok attacks the one attacking Trinket.

MATT: Okay.

JASON: And I can sneak attack, right?

MATT: Yeah, he's currently distracted between you and Trinket.

SAM: What are you going to do, what are you going to do?

MATT: Roll to hit first.

JASON: Oh yeah. I was so excited.

SAM: What if you miss?

LAURA: He won't miss.

JASON: 13.

MATT: 13 does hit.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Skewer that piece of shit.

MARISHA: Nice! That's hot.

TRAVIS: Let the dice hit the floor.

JASON: 20.

MATT: 20 points. All right. So you take the spear and jam it into the abdomen of this looter here who, the sheer force of it from the strength as your muscles push in lifts him and slams him against the wall, you've partially pinned him against the stonework there. He reaches over and slams down on your hand repeatedly until eventually you withdraw and leave him back on his feet. He's looking rough, but he's definitely still holding his own. Is that–?

JASON: Can I use my cunning action with my hand crossbow or–?

MATT: Well, you can use a bonus action to fire with your hand crossbow at him if you want to.

JASON: Yeah.

MATT: All right. It's at disadvantage because you are in melee with him, so go ahead and roll twice and take the lower of the two.

LAURA: This will be sick, though, if he hit it.

SAM: Those are stinky dice.

JASON: 11. 11.

MATT: 11 just hits.

(cheering)

MATT: That's his AC. All right, so go ahead and roll damage with the hand crossbow. 1d6 plus whatever.

LAURA: Right in the face!

JASON: Six.

MATT: Six points of damage. As you pull the spear out, you reach to your side and over-the-arm pull the hand crossbow out and fire. It goes right into his left eye socket.

(cheering)

MATT: With that, you set the spear to the side and lock in the next bolt for your hand crossbow. Are you staying there?

JASON: Yeah.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: The poor bastard that's closest to you to my upper right, yeah, that little fuck's going to get Great Weapon Master relentless attacks.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, all three?

TRAVIS: All three.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: That is better. 14?

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'll take that one.

LAURA: You could've been a 20, though, your next one could be a 20.

MATT: Yeah, roll again. You never know.

LAURA: It was a 20!

MARISHA: Shut up!

MATT: Which, as a note, at your level when you crit you do two additional dice on top of it. So you roll, double it, and then do two additional dice as one of your barbarian–

TRAVIS: I had one additional damage dice.

MATT: For this last level 13, you get two now.

TRAVIS: Oh, jesus.

SAM: This guy's going to be a puddle–

LAURA: Another natural 20!

SAM: Wait, does he get two more?

TRAVIS: On crits or kills, it's an extra hit.

MATT: Extra attack, okay. (laughs) Okay, so first, hold on, first roll damage for the first attack against this one.

TRAVIS: Me and the sword are vibing, man.

MATT: Right. Roll damage on the first one.

TRAVIS: Okay, yeah.

LIAM: You're playing jazz, man.

TRAVIS: 18, 28.

MATT: 28, which fails save, you get another plus one to your strength.

LAURA: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: Just the strength, right?

MATT: Exactly. Second attack, which is the critical. So, roll the dice, double that, add your modifier, and then add 2d12 to that.

TRAVIS: That's a lot of math. Roll another dice. That's a six–

LAURA: 2d12.

TRAVIS: 29, 40, 44?

SAM: What?

MATT: And failed the save again. That's another plus one to your strength.

TRAVIS: That goes up two.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: That keeps happening?

MATT: So as you, the first two attacks, whoosh, cut off the right arm of that individual, and using that momentum, you bring it around and bisect him in the midsection. As that happens, you can see the blood turns from red to black as the blade drinks it up and you feel your muscles pulse with energy.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Just falls back on the ground.

LAURA: So now you can take the other guy, because you killed him.

TRAVIS: I critted on the third one.

MATT: The third one, I'll say because you killed him the third crit goes to the next guy, so go ahead and roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: 22, 32.

LIAM: He's gone.

MATT: Okay. And now you get your additional attack because of the Great Weapon Master.

LAURA: Oh my lord.

MATT: With advantage, because barbarians, man.

TRAVIS: 21?

MATT: Hits. When barbarians crit, man, things die. This is why relentless attack is so good with them. They take the penalty to their AC.

TRAVIS: 24 points.

MATT: 24 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Oh no, 34 points of damage because it's Great Weapon Master.

MATT: Failed save. All right. It made the last one, all right.

TRAVIS: Oh, plus two, 36 points.

MATT: So there you go. So you get another plus one to your strength. However, this time you take the blade and the first attack you jam it into their abdomen like this. As they're looking at you, grasping at your shoulders, your eyes completely covered in bloodlust, the foam at the corner of your mouth, you then put all of your strength at the bottom of it and completely cut upward, the body splitting in half as it falls to the ground.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

TRAVIS: I've never been more happy in my life.

ASHLEY: Oh man, I'm coming back as a barbarian if I die.

MATT: All right, Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Oh, there's more people?

MATT: There's one guy over here by Keyleth who currently hasn't even noticed what's going on because he got hit with lightning twice and is being attacked by a giant tiger.

SAM: All right. I guess I'll try to intimidate him to stop, and I'll say, I'll turn to him and say, you there! Idiot! (stutters) You're not going to win! You should not fight anymore! Because you're going to die. And that's it, that's all I got.

MATT: Okay, roll intimidation check.

LAURA: Worst intimidation ever.

SAM: 22.

MATT: And yet the conviction behind the words– the heart behind each stuttered moment of that sentence–

SAM: You know what, I'll sing to him to intimidate him, would that help?

MATT: If you want to, go for it.

SAM: Sure. I will sing, (singing) Some people call me a gnome cowboy. Some people call me the gangster of love.

TALIESIN: Nobody calls him the gangster of love.

SAM: (singing) Some people call me Maurice because I'm a hitter, I'm a winner, I'm a bedroom shitter.

(laughter)

SAM: (singing) Playing my music on my shawm, oooh.

MATT: Which, right where the guitar would go (high-pitched guitar), you hear the clanging of weapons to the ground as the other remaining thug looks around and sees the mess that you've made of all of his various compadres and immediately drops to the ground, hand over his head, going: “I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'm sorry!”

LAURA: We shouldn't have taken him hostage. I wanted to just kill him.

TRAVIS: Oh, don't worry.

JASON: We can still kill him.

SAM: And as my bonus action, I tell the dwarf to start collecting all the stuff from all the other people as well.

MATT: “Certainly. Right away.” See if he makes his save. He does not. So he then walks over and starts looting the corpses of his friends for you. (laughs)

TALIESIN: That's dark. That's dark.

MATT: All right, so there's the one guy who's on the ground now, hands over his head.

TRAVIS: Is he the only one left?

MATT: He's the only one left.

LAURA: And the dwarf who is looting things now.

MARISHA: I stay in Minxie form and stay on him, growling at him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I, actually, you know what? Instead of looting, I'm going to–

MATT: Slowly the rain begins to hit as the storm finally starts coming down, elevated by the druid spells that brought the moisture to gather over this section. You walk over to him.

LAURA: I'm actually going to start using perception to look for any sign of Gilmore in the rubble or–

SAM: Gilmore? Use your dragon perception, lady.

MATT: This would be more of an investigation check. As you begin to pore over the rubble yourself to gather it–

LAURA: Okay. I leave him to you all.

TRAVIS: Where's the meat?

LIAM: It was my turn in initiative, so I want to walk over to him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Natural 20 on investigation.

MARISHA: Oh, that's going to be good. That's good.

MATT: All righty. So you walk over, so as she's investigating it, you go ahead and you walk over to him.

LIAM: You're coming with me. I lift him up and I'm leading him off around the corner of a building.

MARISHA: I pace along as Minxie.

MATT: Okay. Garthok, you doing anything?

JASON: I go with them.

MATT: Okay, so the half-orc saunters up next to the tiger and you guys disappear around the corner of one of the nearby buildings.

JASON: I just start cleaning my spear in front of him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I pace around.

MATT: All right, you lead him and you slam him up against the wall.

MATT: “Look, look, what do you want?”

LIAM: Nothing.

SAM: Oh, you knocking him out?

MATT: Whack, you take him off the side of the head and he crumples into a pile there in the alley.

LIAM: Pick up some shit from the ground and prop it up against him, a couple of pieces, not bury him, just hide him a bit.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And then I walk back to the group and I start picking shit up around where my sister is.

MARISHA: I go back, I guess. I was useful.

JASON: I thought we were going to interrogate him.

MARISHA: Me, too. (laughs) I came along as intimidation.

LIAM: Looters?

MARISHA: But he was bringing stuff back and forth to–

LAURA: Well, he's still there. And we do have a dwarf that's mind-controlled right now. That is probably the best.

MATT: Who is currently looting the bodies.

LAURA: Don't touch anything. I'm investigating.

MATT: As you are going through the rubble, you can see a lot of the rubble has been moved over, and you see remnants of shattered glass cases and shelves and a lot of the things that you had previously seen within Gilmore's Glorious Goods, largely picked over and left behind. Many books lie tattered and burned and destroyed as part of the attack. You get the sense here that most anything that was of use or worth has been taken already and what the people here were gathering, they mentioned this was their third time back, they were basically picking up what remnants they could, which were pieces of broken objects, elements of gold that were left behind, but most of the contents of the store have been ransacked and taken.

SAM: Can I specifically look for the beaded curtain he emerges from?

MATT: Yes, actually. And as you guys go toward the beaded curtain, it's torn apart and under a big piece of rock. You push aside and, with the help of Grog and a few other individuals, you guys move some of the rocks out of the way to where the bedroom is, and it's completely destroyed. There's no sign of Gilmore or anybody else here, and as the rain's starting to come down a little heavier, you all get that sense of horror washing over you. Vex, you notice, looking underneath where the shattered remains of the foot of his bed are, there is a smooth piece of stone with a handle.

SAM: And a barrel of lube.

LAURA: I rush over to it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can I detect traps now?

MATT: I mean, you could technically detect traps whenever you wanted to try.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: You have to have sight for it. If you want to, go ahead and make a perception check.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: 26. You take a moment to inspect it. You follow the edge, and yes, it is indeed a false door made of this stone tile that comprises the floor of the room, and it is a hatch. It is not trapped.

LAURA: I start pushing on the bed and call for Grog and say, help me with this!

TRAVIS: What? Oh! Run over. I help.

LAURA: There's a door.

LIAM: I hear her yelling and wander up as well.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Still in Minxie, pace over.

MATT: The dwarf comes running up with you guys as well, still–

LAURA: Did he get everything? I mean, did he loot everything, are we–?

MATT: He comes up with all the various coin purses which, interestingly enough, are mostly empty other than a few copper. It seems like whatever they've stolen is not on them currently.

SAM: They gave it to the dragon.

LAURA: Assholes.

TRAVIS: They gave it to him.

LAURA: The dragon.

SAM: Him. Whatever that is.

TRAVIS: Did we ask?

SAM: No.

LIAM: You've got a happy dwarf standing–

SAM: Oi, dwarf.

MATT: “Aye.”

SAM: Who have you been collecting swag for?

MATT: “The dragon.”

SAM: Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: “As long as we give him what's important and what's worth, he'll keep us alive. Even protect us.”

SAM: He told you this?

ASHLEY: Where are you taking it to?

MATT: “To the center of town. Which I've never been before, the Cloudtop itself. What stands is very pretty.”

SAM: The gates to it are open?

MATT: “Aye.”

SAM: And the dragon sits there in the open, collecting his bounty?

MATT: “There's lines, folks lined up bringing all they have to him.”

JASON: So if this is your third trip back, the first two, you already took it to him or did you take it somewhere else to store?

MATT: “Well, we've put it all in a place so that then we can take it to him.”

JASON: Take us to that place.

MATT: “All right.” And he turns around and starts walking away.

JASON: Sorry.

SAM: No, that's fine.

MARISHA: Wait, wait, wait, not yet!

LAURA: But wait, tell us where it is, how about that? How about you tell us where it is. Right now.

MATT: “Certainly.”

MATT: And he explains about a 15-minute walk from here there is a well that is in between four buildings in an alley cross-section. All of it's been actually put into the well, which has been hollowed out, or all the water's been repressed with dirt, and it's been filled with everything they've gathered.

LAURA: He's going to save eventually. He's going to break your mind control. Maybe we should knock him out right now.

TRAVIS: Knock him out, or–?

MATT: At which point, he turns around going, “Ugh.”

LAURA: Knock him out!

MATT: You know what, go ahead and roll an attack. It's going to be surprise because he currently is not aware of the situation, so it's auto-crit.

LIAM: Oh, advantage, all right. Well, that's better. 22.

MATT: Yeah, that hits. Go ahead and roll.

LIAM: Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. That's a 13, 16, that's still spinning, (counting), 26. 26 total.

MATT: Did you double that from the surprise? Because he wasn't even prepared.

LIAM: No, so, uh, okay, so–

MATT: It's enough, if you double it. As long as you're over 40, he's down.

LIAM: Yeah, it would be 40-something.

MATT: Yeah, so. He goes out. A little dwarven pile. He's out.

LAURA: Tie him up. I don't want him waking up and running back to the dragon.

TRAVIS: You know how you solve that?

LAURA: I understand that, Grog. Maybe we should just tie him up.

SAM: Tie him up.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Tie him up and tie him up to a big stone so he can't get up and run even if he–

MATT: Okay, so you guys take a moment to go ahead and–

TALIESIN: Bow. Tie him in a little bow.

MATT: Little bow, little dwarven bow? Okay. You find a large piece of broken stone that was part of the building's base floor structure and you tie it around in multiple ways where he's going to have a hard time getting out, especially in his current mindspace when he comes to consciousness. The rain's still pouring down. He's soaked.

LAURA: Now.

MATT: All right. You guys gather around the hidden hatch in the floor of Gilmore's room, and we're going to go ahead and take a quick bathroom break.

ALL: Oh!

MATT: (laughs) A quick one. We'll take a few minutes, get right back into this because we do have Critmas tonight. We want to make sure we get as much done before we have to leave. So let's do this. See you guys in a minute.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back everyone! So, as Liam here brings up our wondrous Pike, we'll go ahead and hop back into the game in just a minute, but I did want to say two things. One, we have this evening's winner for our giveaway, so a big congratulations to one of my favorite recent chatroom names: congrats to JarFullOfFarts.

(laughter)

MATT: You are our giveaway winner. I love you, Internet, for allowing me to say these sentences. It's a wonderful experience.

TRAVIS: Jar full of farts!

MATT: Also, I want to give a shout-out to a friend of the show who's been helping stream on their end as well, hosting us on their channel, and we've had a good back-and-forth. “Rated E with Elspeth” has been a really awesome supporter of the show. Go check her out, give her a follow if you have the opportunity. Thank you very much, by the way, for helping support us. So, yay! All right, so! Getting back in here. As the rain now continues to pour down from above the open, clouded sky of Emon, you reach down and pull open the false latch on top of this open, hidden compartment beneath the remnants of Gilmore's room. You look down into a dark, low-lit interior, and what appears to be a figure who rushes up very, very quickly and stops. And you hear a voice from within the darkness, just out of view from your position, that says, “Whoever you are, leave! Run away or I swear I'll kill you!”

MARISHA: Sherri.

LAURA: Sherri?

MATT: You look down and it doesn't appear to be Sherri. It's a woman, frazzled hair. You can't make out the details of her expression, but she's holding this blade in front.

LAURA: Don't attack!

SAM: Sherri, it's us!

LAURA: Did you work here? We're looking for Gilmore.

MATT: Looks past her shoulder. “Sherri?”

MATT: And you see Sherri now approaches, her hair frazzled. She looks like she's covered in soot, and actually has suffered some minor burns on part of her arm and the side of her face a little bit, and she steps into the little bit of light at the bottom of the shaft and looks up and goes, “My god. Come in, quick. Please.” And she ushers you down into this area.

MARISHA: I drop Minxie form.

MATT: Okay. As you guys all head down inside, this is a relatively small chamber, maybe 20 feet by 20 feet. There's a couple of small chairs, and there are a few metal rods that are bolted into the stonework leading down as a ladder that you can climb down. This is obviously a hidden compartment that Gilmore uses to go up and down. You get a better view now. It is Sherri there. Trinket, unfortunately, at this moment, cannot make his way down into this, so looks at you (bear grunts). Looks around–

LAURA: Stay and guard the unconscious fucks.

MATT: (bear grunts) and sets into a defensive position now looking out at the rest.

LAURA: If they start to wake up, sit on them! Or kill them, if necessary.

MATT: Gives a nod, and stands there in the pouring rain, soaking through Trinket. The armor ting-ting-ting-ting-ting, ting-ing off the armor. Staying there, keeping guard. As you all climb down, you notice next to Sherri a very frazzled and harrowed-looking– the woman who was holding the dagger in front. Her clothing is very, very nice, though currently torn, and filthy. This is Empress Salda Tal'Dorei.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

SAM: Wait, what, who?

MATT: Empress Salda Tal'Dorei, the wife of Uriel.

LAURA: Empress! Is Uriel down here? Did you make it out? The children!

MATT: She puts her blade away. She looks over her shoulder. “The children–” She puts her hand to the side and you can see in the back room, which, now you can see, there is a teleportation circle that is slowly lit on the bottom of the floor within this room.

MARISHA: What was her first name again? Empress what?

MATT: Salda.

MARISHA: Esalda? With an E?

MATT: Salda. S-A-L-D-A. She looks over and you can see her three kids, Odessa, Illya, and Gren, two daughters and son, are all sitting in the corner, talking to each other. They look like how children deal in these type of situations. They're talking and playing games and trying to distract themselves. But as soon as you guys all walk in, they look over, quietly, and their faces brighten up at the arrival of somebody new, and they recognize you as you begin to step into the low light of the chamber. Salda then puts her hand down and says, “I don't believe my husband made it. But we're alive.”

LIAM: Did you see him fall?

MATT: “No.” And she looks over into the far corner. You can see, amongst the pile of rags and stuff, there is one long pile of dark, crushed velvet blue in the corner, with a small puddle of crimson under it. “He saved us.” And, glancing over in the corner, you can now see the shape of Gilmore, slumped in the corner, arm draped over his midsection, head down to the side, in the center of that pool.

LIAM: I run over, I run over. Is he awake? Is he alive? I've got my hand under his chin. Is he alive?

MATT: You reach over and touch Gilmore's face, and it is cold with sweat, but it's feverish sweat. There is a very, very strong fever in his body, and there's beads of sweat down the face, and as you look down you can see where the arm is holding there is blood soaked into the robe. You can see parts of the robe right now are currently– elements of it are burned and charred. You can see parts of it scraped away. Gilmore's looking pretty rough.

LIAM: I pull him in. Pike, Pike, Pike! Keyleth! Come over here!

MATT: Pike, what are you doing?

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to Cure Wounds.

LIAM: It's going to be all right. Pike is here, it's going to be all right, it's going to be all right. Gil? Is there any consciousness?

MARISHA: I mean, I can try and assist you, Pike, with Cure Wounds. That's all I have right now.

ASHLEY: Okay. Yeah, is he conscious?

MATT: No, unconscious. Unconscious, and looking–

MARISHA: Fading fast?

LAURA: Can you, like, Greater Restoration? I mean, what's the best cure you can do, Pike?

ASHLEY: Okay okay okay.

MATT: You guys can both make medicine checks to try and put him in a position where he would be more susceptible to healing.

LAURA: 22?

ASHLEY: I can use a sixth level, and Heal.

MATT: Use the spell Heal?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: And I did a 16 on my Medicine check, with her 22.

MATT: Okay. So you guys take a moment, you dress the wounds best you can, and put him in a position where Pike, as you bring forward, you grab your holy symbol, and clutching it between both your hands very tightly, you kneel down in front of the slowly fading body of Gilmore. You can see the shiver occasionally, instinctually in his unconsciousness, and you reach out and touch him, and as you do, the warm light of Sarenrae fills your torso, travels through your arms, and into the body of Gilmore. His arms fall to his side, limp, as the warmth swells up into the torso, and for a second, as the outside of the robe that you saw torn open opens up, you can see now the hideous gash that has currently torn through his abdomen. As the warmth spreads through the body, and the light visually shows the horrible, jagged nature of this wound, the wound stitches itself up and you can see it close, leaving but the tiniest of scar across. The blood itself all still caked into the material, but the wound is now closed. As you pull your hands back, you can see Gilmore's body, which has, from the sheer power of the Heal spell, has actually been elevated a few inches off the ground, and then clatters to the ground as the spell finishes, and you can see he shivers for a second, he curls over. (pained grunt)

LIAM: I pull him into my lap, and hold onto him.

MATT: At this point, Sherri instinctively goes, “Is he all right? Is he all right?” She pulls out her glasses, puts them on.

LIAM: I think so, I think so.

MATT: “Who's this one? What is he doing here?”

SAM: He's a friend, he fought with us. He's not corrupted by the dragon's influence.

MATT: “I'd like to know your name, orcish sir.”

SAM: It's really cool.

JASON: I'm Garthok. I bow. I bow.

MATT: She gives you a sideways glance. “Keep your distance. I don't trust you yet.” And she turns back around towards Gilmore. As you're holding him there, the children at this point are very quiet and sitting at his foot as you all gather around this corner. A minute passes in silence. Another minute passes.

LIAM: Smoothing his hair out. Hey. Hey.

MATT: His body is– the stillness is maintained, but you can still feel the heartbeat, and you can feel the pulse of blood through the body from holding the shoulders. And then, from that silence, you hear, (weak coughing). And the mouth opens, and the eyes begin to loll open, and the irises begin to try and find some point of focus, and Gilmore slowly lolls the head back up and looks into your face and smiles, instinctually, little blood at the corner of his mouth, and he looks up at you. “Well. That's always what I assumed I'd see in my last moments.” (chuckles)

LIAM: Bad day, huh?

MATT: “Ah… strangely enough, I'm pretty sure I've had worse.”

LAURA: No offense, darling, but you look like shit.

MATT: (laughs) “We can't have that, can we?” (coughs) Lifts his hand and begins to try and cast a spell. You can see a bit of arcane Prestidigitation begin to try and muster, and he coughs, and the magic sputters and fades.

LIAM: Give it time.

MATT: “So, either we're all dead or we're all alive. I'd like an answer.”

LAURA: Alive.

MATT: “Good, I was hoping you'd say that. (relieved chuckle) I was so worried about you all. I went back for you.”

MARISHA: What? We were so worried about you!

TALIESIN: We're glad you came here.

MATT: “I'm sorry. When they attacked, my instinct was to grab the children. I got who I could, but Uriel pushed me away. He was trying to get others out of the fray.”

LAURA: Did you see him fall?

MATT: “I didn't see him fall, but I went back, and I found him fallen.”

SAM: His body?

MATT: “What was left of it. I brought back Salda and the children. I brought back Asum, and that abrasive dragon girl. I don't know where they are right now.” And Salda chimes in and goes, “They both actually, they left. They went topsoil to try and find other survivors. I told them not to, I told them to stay, but they're assumedly off in the city somewhere, trying to make sense of all this.”

TALIESIN: We're trying to collect people at our keep.

MARISHA: We've turned it into a safe haven.

MATT: “Well. That's kind of you. That's good of you. That's probably one of the only safe places in the city right now.” (coughs)

LIAM: Can you do anything?

LAURA: I mean, I can cast Cure Wounds on him to try to help out at all. Will it help? I mean, you know, more than I would.

MATT: “Whatever your fine angel of Sarenrae did I think will hold me fine for now.” And he smiles and gives a very, very half-hearted wink towards Pike. “Thank you.”

ASHLEY: Welcome.

MATT: “Thank you dearly.”

LIAM: You've certainly earned your name today.

MATT: “I could have saved more. I couldn't find you, I couldn't– I looked.”

MARISHA: We're so sorry.

MATT: “Oh, no, I, you– ”

TALIESIN: We were hard to find.

MATT: “I figured you would be taking care of yourself. I went– (chuckles) I went to the dragon then, just in case you had decided to be your usual foolish selves and run into hell itself.”

LAURA: Perhaps sent a spy and try to trick him? (chuckles) That would have been stupid, huh?

SAM: Yes. Very.

LAURA: Gilmore, we called for you. I'm sorry we didn't wait.

MATT: “No. I'm glad you didn't. You may not be here.”

LIAM: Did you see any others from the Council? Anyone else?

MATT: “Well.” And he leans forward, and sits up out of your lap for a second to look at the rest of you. “There are quite a few dead, unfortunately. Brom Goldhand didn't make it. Most of the guards are gone. Half, if not more, of the Cloudtop District. Killed by the poisonous fume that took the entire area so suddenly.”

LAURA: Poisonous fume?

MATT: “From the initial dragon attack. We've been staying here for safety's sake. I don't know how long I've been out. Could we perhaps make our way towards your place as well?”

LAURA: It would be smart.

SAM: Is there any point to searching for more Council members or allies before we go?

LAURA: Anyone that was alive that you saw?

MATT: “I mean, there were many that were alive by the time I returned. They were all kneeling before the beast. It's very interesting that when given the face of death before you how quickly folks are willing to stay alive at whatever cost of morality and sense of society. I don't blame them. I mean, what other alternative is there, but to stay alive and hope that others come and save them from this burden?” (coughs) And he coughs up a little blood and wipes it from his chin.

LAURA: Does the Cinder King have mind control abilities, or is he just super impressive?

MATT: “I think it's more that he's very persuasive with his threat of how many did not fare this attack. I did get a good look at him, before he– well.”

LIAM: He's ripped the heart out of this city. Let's go.

MARISHA: Everything's gone.

SAM: When you saw him, did you see anything important?

MATT: “I did notice in his chest, where the scales of a dragon usually are uniform, there was an obfuscation of sorts, there was something different about his armor. It was hard to make out the details in how fast we had a duel. I've never dueled a dragon before! I've dueled a dragon now.”

(laughs)

LAURA: And fared quite well!

MATT: “No, I did not! I survived longer than I hoped, and got out when I could.”

JASON: A weak spot.

SAM: Yeah, did it look like scarring? From a previous fight?

MATT: “I didn't get a very good look, but it looked like there was a different material, something smooth and jagged. Something that pulsed with power.”

LIAM: Doesn't sound like a weak spot.

LAURA: That doesn't sound super good.

MATT: “I didn't get a terribly good look, nor do I understand the nature of whatever it was, but–”

TALIESIN: It's the beginning of something. Something to start thinking about.

MARISHA: What do you mean?

MATT: “Does anyone have any water? I'm a bit parched.”

TRAVIS: We got better than that, we got a potion. And honestly, if we're going to be moving about on the streets, I'd like you to not fall open like a can of baked beans, if you don't mind.

MATT: (chuckles) “I'm not going to lie, I'm quite touched by your concern, Grog. It's flattering.” (grunts) And he starts trying to stand up, and as he does, Sherri rushes forward and grabs him.

LIAM: I'm under, too, I'm helping him up.

MATT: You get him up, and he's propping himself up. What little strength he has, he's keeping himself up, and keeping a smile through it all. Even in this weakened state, still trying to present the best of himself that he can. “All right.”

SAM: Gilmore, before we go, one more crazy question: you're not a dragon, are you?

MATT: (laughs) “Oh, I wish I was. That would have made this whole endeavor a little easier on my part.”

SAM: All right.

MATT: “But if you find a way for me to become a dragon, that would be sexy.”

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh, Gilmore.

SAM: Should we teleport, or is there tunnels, or how do we go?

LAURA: Could I have just a little bit of time? Before we–

SAM: Oh, with Garthok? Or with Gilmore?

LAURA: Oh, up top. You know, I'll be right back.

SAM: You're going to go up there?

LAURA: Just for a second.

TRAVIS: All by yourself?

LAURA: I mean, if you guys want to join, if anybody wants to come with me, but I'm going to stealth like a motherfucker.

MARISHA: I mean, it seemed like we were heading out? Are we heading out?

TALIESIN: I propose a plan. Let's get them back to the secret passage. I think we should–

[no audio]

TALIESIN: One of the reasons why a government allows something like the Clasp to exist in a city like this is because it is a shadow infrastructure that will survive an attack like this. It is an infrastructure designed– Grog, it's a bunch of people who are really good at making money when everything's working, and when everything stops working, they get very angry and want to make everything work again.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I understand that.

TALIESIN: So we have a group of people who are well-organized, with everything to gain by this dragon leaving. They're ready, they're prepared, they're probably more prepared than anybody else would be. And they might be willing to help us. They have tunnels, they have men, they have spies, they have everything we need. Please tell me if I'm wrong here.

JASON: You couldn't be more right.

TALIESIN: They might be the friends that we need at this moment.

MATT: “I take it you're one of these underlings?”

JASON: I can't speak for the group, but I am a member, yes.

LAURA: Would they listen to you?

JASON: I'm sure they would.

LAURA: They don't like us very much.

JASON: A lot of us didn't like Mordeth either, so more people like you than you may know.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Where do you want to go?

LAURA: I want to go get that fucking well full of fucking loot. Magical items, gold, who knows what could be in there that could help us?

MARISHA: Wait, wait, wait, you want to go steal from Thordak?

LAURA: No no no! They never gave it to him. They gathered a bunch of shit and they hid it in a well.

SAM: Because he told them to.

LAURA: No, they were going to get it all together and give it to him, but they never gave it to him.

TRAVIS: They were keeping it. They were hiding it away in one place.

TALIESIN: So, a small group goes and gets the gold and the rest of us get Gilmore and the family to the secret passage.

SAM: Last time we took a dragon's gold, five of them showed up.

LAURA: The dragon doesn't know about the gold.

SAM: Don't you think the dragon knows everything that's going on right now? I'm the spy here.

LAURA: If you're scared, then go with Gilmore. I'm going to go get the gold.

TALIESIN: I would agree with getting the gold.

LAURA: Grog?

TRAVIS: I'll go with the family.

LAURA: Gimme the Bag of Holding, then. Where am I going to put all the gold?

TALIESIN: She's got a point.

MARISHA: Do you all remember the last time I told you something was a terrible idea?

LAURA: I've got the Bag of Holding.

MARISHA: It was a few days ago–

SAM: It was every time.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's all the time, really.

MARISHA: Right, right. This is probably another one of those times.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on myself and anybody else joining me?

SAM: I'm coming too.

LAURA: Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Vax?

TALIESIN: I'll come– wait, no, I should probably go.

LIAM: I don't want to go, but I'm not leaving you. And I hoist Gilmore onto Keyleth.

MATT: “Ah.”

TALIESIN: We've got you.

MATT: “Hello.” (chuckles)

MARISHA: Vax.

LIAM: I'm not happy.

LAURA: Well, then, don't be pissy about it.

LIAM: I'm not leaving you.

LAURA: We'll be right back. I mean, it's magic shit! Gilmore, I'm going to get your shit back for you.

MARISHA: Remember the last time we went somewhere to go get a big pile of shit?

MATT: “Good thing, because, well. I'm going to need it to renovate this place a little.” (laughs, coughs)

LAURA: Right?

TRAVIS: He's a fan of it.

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace on the three of us. Stealth like a motherfucker.

SAM: Who's three? Us three?

LAURA: Yeah. Us three. Stealth out. It's like a 15-minute walk.

MARISHA: We were flanked here at Gilmore's Goods. What makes you think that they're not going to have a ton of people sitting there watching that well?

LAURA: I'm going to look out for that shit this time.

MARISHA: Yeah, that, right. That's worked well in the past.

JASON: The area where they're going, where the well is. Is that closer to one of the entrances to the Clasp?

MATT: The one you're going towards? In the direction. It's a little bit past where you're going so you'd have to double back to the entrance, but it is totally a way to do it.

LAURA: Look, see?

SAM: Then we're all going to the same place.

LAURA: See? Look at this. I'm going to stay separate from the group so I can stealth a little bit better.

TRAVIS: Twins out in front.

LAURA: I'm stealthing. Pass Without a Trace on all of us, then.

MATT: Stealth checks from all those that are heading towards the well.

LAURA: Are we all heading towards the well to jump down to the Clasp, or is anybody going back towards the Keep right now?

JASON: The well's farther or the Clasp entrance is farther?

MATT: The Clasp entrance is closer, the well is further, so you actually go past it.

MARISHA: Hang on, hang on. Hang on. We're all going to the Clasp entrance?

MATT: That's up to you guys.

MARISHA: Which is in the same direction as our keep? Because we have a crippled guy on our shoulder.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we wanted to get the family and Gilmore back to the keep first.

LAURA: And the kids. Get them back to the keep.

SAM: Can't you tree-shoot us, tree-shoot them there?

MARISHA: I don't want to use that in case we need to tree-shoot us to Vasselheim. Or somewhere.

TALIESIN: Let's hold that off.

TRAVIS: We're going to the Clasp entrance, right, to go to the tunnels and all the network of shit that we don't understand because they'll be allies and the people that are going to stealth ahead are going to go to the well?

LAURA: I don't think we should bring three children into the Clasp.

TALIESIN: This was my thought, is we take everybody who's down here, we get them back to the castle. In the meantime–

SAM: Which castle? The keep?

TALIESIN: Keep. In the meantime, you get the treasure. Once the treasure is gotten and they're back in the keep, we get together and find the Clasp.

LAURA: Perfect plan! Let's go.

MARISHA: I grab Vax's hand and pull him back as they pace away.

MATT: Okay. So, as you guys all find your way outside of the remnants of Gilmore's facility, the three children and Salda staying very close. She keeps the children like right at her sides with her arms around them, protectively. Sherri's at her side as well with her blade out just in case, and they're forming this circle around the remnants of the Tal'Dorei family. As those of you continue to push forward, before you disappear, Keyleth grabs and pulls you.

LIAM: Splitting off?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: I have to go.

MARISHA: What? Don't, wait! Vax, Vax, listen to me.

LIAM: I pull away and go.

MARISHA: No, Vax! God fuckin', you–

MATT: As Vax quite literally disappears from your sight after a few steps, vanishing into the shadow of the rubble.

MARISHA: I go through to my earring. Vax, talk her out of it. This is not the time to be looting for treasure. That's only ever brought us grief. Talk her out of it.

LAURA: 29, 39 on stealth for me.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

SAM: 28.

LAURA: Plus ten?

MARISHA: Who's taking the kids home?

LAURA: Trinket's going with you guys, by the way.

LIAM: 42.

MARISHA: You're coming with us?

TRAVIS: I'm going, yeah, with the kids.

MARISHA: With the kids? I'll cast Pass Without a Trace on us. On team back-to-the-keep.

MATT: Okay. I'll have you guys roll a stealth check as well. Okay. And you're heading with them to the–

JASON: So, well. In what direction is the keep, because–

MATT: The keep is southward. It's away from the entrance to the Clasp.

JASON: Garthok's dilemma is his first priority is trying to–

SAM: Garthok's Dilemma is a great book.

(laughter)

LAURA: Do what you got to do, Garthok.

JASON: Garthok's dilemma is his–

TRAVIS: Don't tell us, just do it!

JASON: He's got to go towards the Clasp because he's trying to make sure they're still alive.

MATT: As you guys divide, Garthok still stands there for a second looking back and forth, conflicted by this. Vex, you pick up on this as you're walking away.

LAURA: What're you doing?

JASON: I have to go, I have to find the Clasp. It's my number one priority. It's why I sought you guys out in the first place.

MARISHA: We understand. We've got the kids.

JASON: I'll meet you at the Clasp entrance.

LAURA: Where do you want us to meet you?

SAM: Can you tell us where the entrance is? Do we know where the entrance is?

LAURA: Which entrance?

JASON: The entrance that I know exists is in the same direction as the treasure, so I will travel with you until we get to the entrance, which hopefully is there and not destroyed.

LAURA: Better fucking stealth like a motherfucker.

JASON: Ready. 14.

MATT: Plus ten. 24 for stealth.

MARISHA: Are we all rolling stealth?

MATT: Yeah. Everyone is. Plus ten.

TRAVIS: 27.

SAM: Pike!

ASHLEY: Yup. I rolled a 16.

LAURA: Yeah, 26 stealth, Pike!

ASHLEY: That was at disadvantage, too.

MATT: Nice. Well-played.

MARISHA: 25.

TALIESIN: 31.

MATT: All right. So as you guys split off in the rain, occasionally you hear the slam of something heavy echoing in the distance from the Cloudtop and a guttural yell of frustration.

LAURA: I'm keeping my eye out for any kind of anything in front of us.

MATT: Right. You're not sure what or why anything's happening, but twice during your journey northward for this, you hear a low growl or roar and there's a flash of fire from over the wall. You don't know what happened. As you guys push, darting through the alleys, for the team that's going for the entrance to the Clasp, you lead them into–

JASON: A trap! Booyah!

(laughter)

LAURA: You motherfucker!

MATT: That would've been amazing.

JASON: I've been waiting to trap you for three hours!

MATT: You lead them into a wine cellar that is locked over with a series of chains. You go forward and you know where there are two triggers for two traps that are part of that entrance. You go ahead and deftly disable both traps through hidden mechanisms. You go ahead and pull on one of the chains and it extends magically as you pull on it, almost infinite, or at least for a period of time. You find the right link, you activate it, keeping this all hidden to yourself, because this is what you're trained to do, and the chain disables itself or breaks into three different pieces. You then open up the two parts of this cellar, lead them down into a regular wine cellar. It's very dark. There's almost no light down there other than what's pouring in through this entrance. It looks like most of the wine bottles here have been taken out. It's empty other than a few small bottles that are set up in this vast criss-cross of wooden racks, and you go ahead and walk over to one of the barrels and lift up the top of a heavy, heavy whiskey barrel. Pulling off the top of the barrel, the barrel itself does not move as he's wrestling with it. As he does, he climbs into and stops for a second, looks around, and shows you guys that this barrel itself is actually a chute ladder that leads downward into a subterranean base.

LAURA: Got it. Now is all that shit up top going to be open for us when we come back?

JASON: I could wait for you here or maybe come with you and get some of that treasure.

LAURA: It's going to be a while, you know. We've got to get the treasure and go back to the Keep and come back–

SAM: You can come with us. You can come with us.

LAURA: I mean, it's up to you. I know you need to talk to the Clasp, so if you need to talk to them and let them know we're on our way–

SAM: Enough treasure to go around.

JASON: I could definitely let them know.

LAURA: It's up to you.

JASON: I'm relieved that it's there and not destroyed, so.

MATT: Okay. So, you guys, now knowing where the entrance is, you make your way back out. You close the cellar and make your way towards where this dwarf's general description of the well is. I want you to make an investigation check.

SAM: All of us?

MATT: All of you.

SAM: 27.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

LAURA: You're not with us.

TRAVIS: Oh, I thought he said everybody.

MATT: Sorry, everybody in that group. But congratulations!

MARISHA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: I escort the kids expertly. I'm a champ at babysitting.

MATT: You've had a Percy game today. You've had a lot of twenties.

LAURA: 19.

ASHLEY: 20.

JASON: 14.

LIAM: 11.

MATT: 11. So you guys take about 20 minutes, wandering the area unable to find really which destination this is, partially because a lot of the sections here are partially destroyed or at least are unfamiliar to you. You've not spent a lot of time in this northern area of Emon. Scanlan, you dart off for a second, seeing a similar crossroads between alleys, and you find a well that very much appears to be, and you know it's yours because there's a number of copper and gold coins that are scattered around the base of the well.

SAM: This is it. Traps?

LAURA: I look around. Can I perceive anything or any people around, anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: All right. You– damn, guys. You glance about and nobody is here. Other than the sound of the rain that is still smashing down from outside, there doesn't appear to be any individual within visual range right now.

SAM: Vex, can you scan for dragons, please?

LIAM: I rolled a 22 for traps.

MATT: Okay. No traps from what you can tell. As you look over the edge of the well, you can see where the dirt has been packed in and given a false, or a somewhat muddy bottom to the well, which once held water. And around the edges you can see where there are a couple of discarded shovels thrown to the side, and chunks of the earth that have been shoved in there to give it some sort of bottom. You also see there's maybe about 20, 30 or so haphazard coins in the bottom. Empty.

SAM: He got it already.

LAURA: Dicks! Dicks.

SAM: Talking about dragons?

LAURA: No, whoever the fuck came and took all the fucking gold.

SAM: The dragons came and got it.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's what I think.

LAURA: Can I take one of the shovels and move some of the dirt to see if maybe it's deeper than it looks?

MATT: Okay. You go ahead and move some of the dirt, and you find a couple more coins, a total of 35 gold it would be, really, that you get from it.

LAURA: What a waste.

SAM: Can we see, can I see any signs of dragon claws or dragon slobber or anything?

MATT: (laughs) There are none around you, and you gather from the sheer immensity that is the Cinder King that if he were to come down here and retrieve this gold himself, most of the adjacent buildings and the well would be ruined.

SAM: So people put a bunch of gold there then someone else came and took it?

JASON: Well, allegedly a bunch of gold. Maybe that's all they found.

SAM: It's your fucking people from the Clasp, isn't it?

JASON: No!

LAURA: Can I use tracking to see if it looks like anybody's been here?

MATT: Sure. Make a wisdom survival check.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19. There are a number of footprints, actually. Relatively recent, that all–

LAURA: Is that 17 or 11? That's 11. Okay, yeah.

MATT: Yeah, okay. So looking about, you see the tracks pushing northward. There's about four fresh sets of prints, fresher than the others you see around it. The trail of coins that follow that for about ten, 15 feet, you can tell that they were taken in haste. You gather by the way it's set up that perhaps somebody else had found this cache before you did.

LAURA: I never thought, when we came back up out of the fucking trap door, were the people still unconscious?

MATT: Yeah, they were still unconscious.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

SAM: Let's follow the tracks. They're fresh.

LIAM: Are we really going to scrabble about in the mud for coin today?

SAM: Well, we've come this far.

LIAM: Scanlan.

SAM: I'm very easily swayed.

(laughter)

JASON: What a great leader.

LIAM: We should go back to the Keep.

SAM: You're right, you're right.

LIAM: This is a waste of our time.

SAM: But if Vex could somehow convince us–

(laughter)

SAM: I'd be open to it.

LAURA: Look, the reason I wanted to come get all of this gold is because I thought there could be a lot of Gilmore's magical items that were probably put in here. People don't realize what they have. I thought it could help us a lot.

LIAM: I understand, and it was not a bad idea, but this place has been cleared out, let's–

LAURA: But what if it's just one or two people that came and stole everything and we could totally take them.

SAM: And they're like 100 yards away.

LAURA: And they're like right up the alley. Like right there. Can I stealth ahead a little bit and see?

MATT: Okay. You stealth ahead, and at this point, you follow the tracks that go to the road, and they're following the alleys as well, you can see from the way they're–

LIAM: Wait wait wait. I'm sorry, one second. You know, you're very charming, but you're a fucking weirdo. And I climb up after my sister stealthily and follow.

MATT: Okay. All right.

SAM: I just shrug. I think he was talking to you.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, and what do you two do?

JASON: I'm going back to my trap door.

MATT: Okay. So Garthok, you step away from the group and head back to the Clasp.

JASON: Thank you for–

SAM: It's been a great day killing with you. I hope our paths cross again, perhaps in the catacombs.

JASON: I will let the Clasp know that you're coming.

SAM: Tell them whenever they see Scanlan Shorthalt to open the door. They stealthed, so I don't know where they went, do I?

MATT: Roll a perception check.

LIAM: I got a natural 20 on my stealth.

SAM: Got a nine on perception.

MATT: You have no clue.

SAM: Can I look at the tracks? I can't read tracks.

MATT: Go ahead and make a wisdom survival check, just for the hell of it.

SAM: Three.

MATT: Three? Okay. You begin following a set of tracks that you think is pretty close to theirs. Pike, you're with everyone else bringing the rest of them back to the keep. You're with the other half of the group.

TRAVIS: You're with me, Pike.

MARISHA: We're babysitting.

MATT: You guys are babysitting the family and Gilmore, getting him back to the keep.

ASHLEY: Oh. Wait, why did I stealth check?

MATT: To stealth with them to get out of the city, and we'll get to you guys in just a minute.

ASHLEY: Oh, I thought I was going with them.

SAM: Do I even know how to get home from here?

MATT: Based on that check? You get really discombobulated in the center of the rainy midday of Emon.

LAURA: I said I was going to be right back, Scanlan!

LIAM: A hand shoots out of the darkness and grabs Scanlan by the nose and tugs him off.

MATT: Okay. All right. You guys continue on, and following the tracks a little bit, they lead westward and curve down a few more alleys, heading towards the north entrance to the Cloudtop.

LAURA: Ah, shit. Fuck it. They're taking it to the fucking dragon. Dicks.

MATT: Do you continue to follow or do you head back?

LAURA: No, we'll fucking go back.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Will you tell me how to get back?

LAURA: Hey.

LIAM: Could you say that again with your nose pinched?

SAM: Will you tell me how to get back?

(laughter)

LAURA: We'll get back. What happened to– where's Gorthok?

SAM: Garthok.

LAURA: Garthok. Where is he?

SAM: Garthok told me he was going back to his Clasp entrance. Our paths will cross again. He also said that you were kind of weird.

LAURA: Oh, well. I am. I start walking back to the keep.

MATT: Okay, you guys make your way back. The rest of you make your way further south, retracing the path you took here since you already know what's there. You do reach a certain point where as you push down one of the alleys, a few individuals come out, blades at the ready and, “Hey! Drop your stuff. Give us what you've go–” And then, at which–

MARISHA: Boof!

MATT: (laughs) At which point, Keyleth socks one in the jaw as Sherri pulls out a wand and blasts one of the nearby pieces of stone off the wall with a bolt of lightning.

MARISHA: Not today.

MATT: Gilmore, who steps onto his feet and carries his weight for a second raises his hands up, and as he does you can see arcane bolts whipping around him in this almost molecule-like electron pattern as he goes, “Do you gentlemen seriously wish to start this ruckus?”

SAM: Yeah!

MATT: They all go, “No.” And they slowly back away and then dart around the corner as fast as they can. You hear their feet spattering against the mud.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes, yeah, you better run!

TRAVIS: Way to tell them, Kiki.

MATT: As Gilmore lowers his hands, he begins to fall forward.

TALIESIN: And we grab him.

MATT: Grab him, catch him, and he's like, (breathing hard). “That's, that's the last of me. That's all I've got. Take me home. Please.”

MARISHA: We're almost home. Almost home.

MATT: Pinches your cheek, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

(laughter)

MATT: You guys continue to the path. As you make your way through the groups of the dead that you passed before, a lot of them have since been taken off the street and you can see now graves are being dug right outside of the gate as you find the south gate. Do you want to walk through the fields or do you want to use the same path you took into the secret path into the Keep?

TRAVIS: I think the fields would be my vote.

LAURA: What?

MATT: You're not there.

TALIESIN: No one's noticing us at this point. There's too much going on.

TRAVIS: Oh. Out of the city is I think the safest way.

MARISHA: Why wouldn't we take the secret passage? It's here, right? No?

MATT: As soon as you say secret passage, Gren, the little boy, is like, “Did you say secret passage?”

MARISHA: I did! I did!

MATT: Comes up and like, “I've never seen a secret passage before.”

MARISHA: Do you want to go see it?

MATT: “Can we see the secret passage?” The kids seem really excited and you can see Salda, for the first time since you've seen her, smiles a little bit.

MARISHA: We can't disappoint the children.

TRAVIS: (sighs) Fine. Secret passage it is.

LAURA: Trinket's with you guys, don't forget.

MATT: Trinket's been keeping guard through the mud behind you.

TALIESIN: Let the kids ride Trinket.

MATT: As a relatively stealthy bear would try. As you make your way through the secret passage, successfully finding your way back to Greyskull Keep, you climb up back into the kitchen and there you can see Laina and Erwen who are both sweaty, their stains are soaking through their outfits. They've been working around the clock to make sure that everyone who's currently held within the keep is being cared for and fed, and their faces immediately light up as you all start pouring out of the pantry. “I'm so glad to see all of you. I wasn't sure if you'd come back.”

SAM: Are we there now?

MATT: They're getting there first, before the rest of you. And she runs up and embraces each of you, wipes her brow. “I'll have food soon.”

MARISHA: It's okay, it's okay.

MATT: And she goes over and sees. “And the children, you got children with you?”

TALIESIN: We don't know whose they are.

MATT: The kids get really shy, seem quiet and hide behind Salda. She goes, “It's all right. We'll take them– where should we take them? Where should we go? Lead on, I've never been here before.”

ASHLEY: You can put them in my room.

TRAVIS: Yeah, or mine.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we'll put them up. I can sleep in my workshop.

MARISHA: I think we've pulled a lot of our beds down–

MATT: Yeah, most of the beds, most of your rooms are–

MARISHA: We'll find a place for you. Just get comfortable for right now. It's a little cramped, I'm sorry. It's not Castletop.

MATT: “You saw where we were. We'll take anything at this point.” Gilmore comes in and looks around. “You know, I'm not going to lie, I always wanted to see the place. Perhaps a tour is in order. Tomorrow.” He hangs his head. You make your way into the rest of–

MARISHA: I find a bed. Where's the nearest bed?

MATT: The nearest bed would be one of the beds that you guys moved into Sarenrae's temple.

MARISHA: Is there someone on it?

MATT: There's someone sitting on it, but as soon as you bring someone who looks as wrecked as he is–

MARISHA: I say, hey, beat it.

MATT: Yeah. They get up and leave and you lay Gilmore down.

LIAM: “But my elbow really hurts!”

(laughter)

MATT: After a short time of getting them established with Greyskull Keep, the rest of Vox Machina arrives, the rain now pouring heavily outside. Looking back, you can see some of the smoke has lessened. It's helping put out some of the fires in the remaining piles of burning wood that were once buildings of Emon.

MARISHA: Keyleth runs up to Vax and gives him a hug. You're okay, you're okay? You did it? You talked her out of it?

LAURA: Yeah. Yeah, Keyleth. He talked me out of it. I walk past.

MARISHA: Thank you. And I walk away.

MATT: Okay. As you guys get everyone situated in the Keep, your mind begins to turn to what the next step is in preparing for whatever the next step you want to be. And we'll go ahead and finish tonight's game at that point. Pick this up again next week, so we can go ahead and take a moment here to prepare for Critmas. I know some of you guys have got to run, so if you've got to run, say goodbye to the folks–

LAURA: Oh, you guys are all so wonderful and we love you.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MATT: We'll stay, we'll open the gifts for them. And get those to them, so we will be surprised for them.

LAURA: Yes, please.

MATT: And also, guys, once again I want to give a big thank you to Jason Charles Miller.

(cheering)

LAURA: Yay, Garthok!

MARISHA: Yeah, Garthok! Party on, Garthok!

JASON: So, also, tomorrow night, on this very channel at 7PM Pacific, 10PM Eastern, I am playing an acoustic concert. Right here, same channel, just one click away.

TRAVIS: In character or as Jason?

JASON: As Jason. Maybe I'll try to write a Garthok song before tomorrow.

MATT: That's awesome. Yeah, great! Yeah, guys, come back tomorrow, 7PM on this channel and go and watch Jason's awesome acoustic concert. He's a phenomenal musician. If you haven't seen his stuff, look it up beforehand just so you can get yourself prepped.

TALIESIN: You can watch a bunch of music videos, too, and maybe see some of us.

JASON: I think most of the people here have had cameos in my videos.

MATT: Yeah, that's true, actually. So, there's that. And, actually, Mark Holmes, who's the dungeon master for the Yogscast RPG show that just started who are friends of ours, he makes a small cameo in one of the videos as well when he was in America briefly, so it all ties together. Yeah, he was there for that shoot. He's in the background with me in one of the shots. Yeah, just look for his nerdy British self. It's great. Love you, Mark. But yeah, Jason, thank you again for playing. Check out Jason tomorrow. Check him out in the Dungeons and Dragons– what's the game title?

JASON: Oh, I'm in Neverwinter. As Drizzt Do'urden–

MATT: As Drizzt Do'urden! Maybe you know the name if you've heard of any of the Forgotten Realms. He's the character that everybody between 1986 and 1995 tried to make.

MARISHA: You're also one of the dudes in Avatar, when they–

MATT: He's been in Avatar a few times.

JASON: Avatar: The Last Airbender, World of Warcraft, a guy in Super Street Fighter–

MATT: Yeah, check out his array of characters he's voiced. He's awesome. Well, guys, thank you so much. We'll be back here in just a few minutes. We're going to prep for Critmas, so yeah. See you soon.

LAURA: Thank you, thank you.

MARISHA: Bye, guys. 

Part I

MATT: Anyway. So. So. Let us go ahead and delve into tonight's game proper, folks. So, to get you up to speed, Vox Machina, the intrepid band of adventurers you see before you, after a series of adventures, had found their way back to their central city of Emon, in the center of the region of Tal'Dorei. After a ceremony in which the leader of their city, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei, was announcing him stepping down, the town was suddenly under siege by a group of extremely powerful and dangerous ancient dragons that call themselves the Chroma Conclave. After tearing the city asunder in many places, three of them flew off into the east under the instruction of the fourth and possibly largest and leader of the group, that has recently been found to be called Thordak the Cinder King, who currently resides in the center of the city of Emon, claiming that his mercy is only for those who worship him and essentially feed his greed and hunger. As such, Vox Machina, narrowly escaping the battle, a couple of encounters with these dragons, including one above their Keep, are housing a number of survivors who have made their way out of the city and are currently residing in Greyskull Keep for protection. You guys went into the city to see if you could find any other allies and friends that may have survived this encounter. You befriended a member of the Clasp, named Garthok, who walked amongst the rubble and proceeded to show you the secret entrance he knows to the Clasp, of which you may be trying to inquire about information. On your way to that area, you passed by Gilmore's shop, Gilmore being a good friend of the group and a powerful magic practitioner and creator of magical items and artifacts and a number of glorious goods. His abode, however, smashed and currently a pile of burnt wood and rock. Looters were currently poring through, and you attempted to get them to leave the area alone. It came to blows, and with many of the looters falling in battle, two of which were kept locked away. You discovered the location of where they were hoarding the massive amounts of gold and artifacts that they had acquired from the rubble. You then found the secret compartment in which Gilmore's teleportation sigil was locked beneath his shop, where the remaining family of Tal'Dorei, Salda and the three children, as well as Gilmore himself, wounded and barely alive, having saved them. You found that Uriel, the Sovereign, did not seemingly survive the encounter with the dragons, and Gilmore nearly fell going back to try and make sure that you guys were okay, barely escaping with his life. You managed to save his, and taking the children, Salda, Sherri, and Gilmore back to Greyskull Keep, some of you splintered off to try and acquire the goods that were taken from his store, however, they apparently had already been stolen from the location they were being stored in, or been delivered already, you're uncertain as to what became of them, but you get the sense that it was probably best that you chose Gilmore over the gold at first glance. Making your way back to the Keep, you've sent Gilmore up to rest for the evening, some of you have then found your way down into the temple of Sarenrae, where a number of the escaped refugees from Emon currently try desperately to cling to their memories, to try and keep the shakes at bay and contemplate what the next step is for survival in this now partially ruined city. That was where we left off. So. What would you like to do?

SAM: Kill all the dragons and save the day.

MATT: Good! Roll for it.

LAURA: Oh, that was a good roll. See?

TALIESIN: Natural 20. No, no.

MARISHA: Good show, guys.

LAURA: I rolled five natural 20s before the show even started.

SAM: That's a great, great idea.

LAURA: So it's all going to be terrible.

SAM: Why are you rolling before the show?

TRAVIS: She feels like she's got to “warm up” her endless army of dice.

LAURA: No, I just have to figure out which ones I want to use that night.

TRAVIS: You have five d20s right now.

LAURA: I know, and they're all useful. No, I've got six out here.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah, definitely all useful.

TALIESIN: This is, by the way, for anybody tuning in for the first time at home, this is how we express that we have no idea what to do.

SAM: Where are we?

TALIESIN: We're at home.

MATT: You're in Greyskull Keep.

SAM: And Gilmore's with us?

MATT: Gilmore's with you, he's been brought upstairs–

LIAM: And did Pike's holy visitor fix the keep, or is the keep still effed up?

MATT: Actually, in the short time in which her visitor, this angelic deva-like entity that was brought forth from Sarenrae's sphere of influence, did manage to repair entirely the damage that was sustained to the Keep from the battle with Vorugal out in your courtyard. So yes, Greyskull Keep is now back to being intact and rather fairly polished. The stained glass is affixed and corrected.

LIAM: It must look so strange next to the ruined city of Emon.

MATT: It's far enough away, but–

LAURA: Little strange.

MARISHA: So what time is it? It was nighttime, right? Or was it midday?

MATT: It's about midafternoon at this point, maybe pushing into the evening.

TALIESIN: Is Kima still around?

MATT: I'm sorry, what was that?

TALIESIN: Is Lady Kima still around, or?

MATT: Lady Kima's been in Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Oh, not Vasselheim, I'm sorry. Allura. I'm on the wrong page.

MATT: Yeah, she and Drake went.

MARISHA: Remember, they turned into shooting stars and they flew away.

SAM: Is Clarota still here with us?

(laughter)

LAURA: We're off to a good start tonight, guys.

MATT: In your hearts. In your heart of hearts.

TRAVIS: No, not even there. That piece of shit. Where are the majority of the people? Are they in the dining hall and in the–

MATT: They're scattered between the dining hall and the temple to Sarenrae. Partially because, one, there's enough space there, two, it's a place of sanctity, it's a place of hope, and Pike is currently bringing people– not preaching to them, per se, but offering comfort in their current area of misery and worry. So those are pretty much the localized areas. Occasionally one of the kids might begin wandering the halls, a parent might chase after them, trying to draw them back in, but respectfully, no one's wandering the house filling their pockets, they're all still happy to be alive at this point.

LAURA: Well, that's because we don't have anything, because Scanlan's troupe stole everything anyway.

MATT: There's that, too.

SAM: We bought new silverware.

TRAVIS: Sure we did.

SAM: Maybe it wasn't my troupe, maybe it was our new guests, the people fleeing for their lives.

TRAVIS: I was going to say, are there any new people that have come into the keep while we've been away? Can I ask one of our guards that?

MATT: Sure, yeah. Shayne, who's out front, currently strolling through the courtyard, comes up to you, and as you ask her, she goes, “Well, we've had a few other refugees come in and ask for entry, and we patted them down to make sure there were no weapons and tried our best to keep an eye on them since they arrived. Seems like most everyone's keeping either into the city or keeping fairly underground.”

TRAVIS: Nobody's sticking out to you, though, no shady individuals, nobody sweating more than is necessary when being threatened by a big fuck-off dragon?

MATT: “Not yet, but I believe Jarett's keeping a close eye.”

TRAVIS: Jarett–

SAM: That guy. Man-crush?

TRAVIS: No.

(laughter)

SAM: I wonder, in all prudence, should we go around to the 'fugees, the refugees and do a quick–

LAURA: Insight check?

SAM: – scan, alignment check or something?

TRAVIS: Lauryn Hill is shaking her head.

LAURA: Do we have anything that can sense people's alignment?

SAM: Pike might.

MARISHA: Yeah, I can.

SAM: Can you do a mass, a mass sense alignment?

MARISHA: Mass sense alignment?

SAM: Is that a thing?

MARISHA: No, I'm saying I could do some insight checks on people.

SAM: Oh, I'm talking about your magic.

MARISHA: No, I'm not Pike.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Pike's with us, though, right? She could do an insight check.

SAM: Is she with us?

MATT: Pike is with you. She is currently helping folks inside the temple. But you could go ask her to.

LIAM: Use the skull to wish to know everyone's alignment. Problem solved.

TRAVIS: We'll kill everyone. Kill everyone.

SAM: Maybe we should just kill one of them to make an example.

LAURA: This is terrible, what is happening?

LIAM: This isn't the real game, the game hasn't actually started yet.

MATT: So. Glancing about the populace of scattered refugees throughout the general vicinity of Greyskull Keep, I will pick two of you who wish to be the main surveyors of the crew.

SAM: Is this insight?

MATT: This would be insight, yes.

LAURA: I'm on it.

MARISHA: I'm on it with Vex.

MATT: Okay, so Vex and Keyleth, both you guys roll insight checks, please.

LAURA: See, this is why I shouldn't have this many dice, because I don't know what to choose. Okay. 21.

LIAM: Insight?

MARISHA: 22.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: Okay. Both of you guys spend about ten, 15 minutes or so scanning through the crew, asking a few questions, helping a few folks out while keeping an eye on reactions around the general vicinity. No one sticks out to you as being either hiding their intent, shifty. There are a few folks that are aloof from the whole experience, who seem to be either in a state of shock, or discomfort based on their current surroundings, but nothing in a way that strikes you as nefarious or worrisome.

LIAM: And are they all strangers, other than the people we brought back with us?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: They are strangers?

MATT: Yeah. There's a lot of people that live in Emon, and none of them seem to catch your eye.

LIAM: Yeah. Is anyone still badly hurt?

MATT: Most of them have had their wounds tended to. There are a few that have general scars, some from elements of frostbite on their skin, who were caught in the blast, who were salvaged after Vorugal left. There are a few that have scrapes and bruises from fleeing from the town, from collapsing debris from different buildings and such, but no serious injuries. A few bone fractures here and there that have been set and bandaged.

LIAM: I'm going to spend the first bit of time at home helping Pike, doing whatever she tells me to do, really, to help the people here.

MARISHA: Is there any deceased that need to be tended to?

MATT: Well, there are a number of deceased in the front courtyard, people that were frozen and shattered as part of Vorugal's attack, which at this point, most of them have been taken care of by the guards and given a proper burial on the outside of the Keep, a few yards away, towards the inside of the one of the hills. They haven't been left to thaw, if that was what you're worried about.

MARISHA: That's what I was worried about.

TALIESIN: Red meat. Red.

LAURA: Gross.

LIAM: Way to go dark. Way to go dark.

TALIESIN: I thought that's what we were doing today.

MATT: Cost-effective. A number of the refugees have also helped the guards as well, transporting the bodies of the deceased and making sure that they're properly interred in the nearby countryside.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: What are our options here? First of all, do we know Gilmore's status?

LAURA: Yeah, we need to get him settled in, make sure he's all right.

LIAM: Well, he's gone up, he's resting.

MARISHA: Yeah, we put him to bed already.

LIAM: He's in Percival's room, I think. You said you would sleep in your laboratory.

SAM: And when we last left things, there was one plan to go into the tunnels of the thieves' guild and try to see if there's any more–

LAURA: Yes. Actually, Garthok.

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: Garthok is waiting for us down in those, so we can go look at the Clasp and talk to them and everything, because he's told them we're on our way.

SAM: And to what end, again? We're going to see if there's any random diplomats left over?

TALIESIN: They're the only functioning organization left in the city at this point.

LIAM: It's true, they're a double-edged sword, though. I mean, they should not be trusted, we cannot trust them, but they are an infrastructure under the city. They may have more of an idea what's going on than we do. I'm the best to speak to them, but I'm not on good terms with them, and I've never really talked to you about this, but you were marked at one point, a long time ago.

LAURA: What?

SAM: For death?

LIAM: Actually, yes.

LAURA: Why? What did I do?

LIAM: I'm sure I don't know. The reason there is a brand on my back is because I interceded. Some other schmoe died instead of you. You might be a bit of a sore point with them. I don't know. They might not remember, but I don't think that's true, I think they'll remember.

MARISHA: How long ago was this?

SAM: What did you do?

LAURA: So many things.

LIAM: Before we met, when Vex and I were on our own.

SAM: Was it because you farted that time?

LAURA: You didn't think you could mention this? All the times we've dealt with the Clasp? You didn't think it was worth mentioning that I almost died?

MARISHA: She's already been down there. She's already been down there! You think they're going to recognize her now?

LIAM: We're going down to talk.

LAURA: We've been down there to talk.

LIAM: Right. All right.

LAURA: That's why you don't keep secrets.

TALIESIN: Well, I say that we organize a group. Let's not get overexcited about the sudden realization that some of us can be a bit iffy. We've all had a moment, probably within the last three weeks. I'm not saying I don't.

TRAVIS: I haven't.

TALIESIN: Yes, oddly, you and Pike seem to be immune.

TRAVIS: It is a virtue.

TALIESIN: But let's organize a group, and let's at least open relations with them at this point.

MARISHA: Well, hang on, hang on. What are we going to say to them when we get down there? What are we going to offer them?

TALIESIN: We are going to offer them our services in getting this city back to a functioning level. They don't want a city ruled by a dragon, we don't want a city ruled by a dragon. It's in their interest to help us clear the city.

LIAM: They're going to look out for themselves, and you're probably– I'm sure you're right, they want these dragons out, but they will do– they will preserve their own existence, and there's a possibility that bowing before these beasts will preserve their existence.

TALIESIN: Not long-term, and these are groups that think long-term.

MARISHA: Wait, are you talking about us bowing to the Clasp, or the Clasp bowing to the– okay. Sorry, there were levels.

LIAM: And yes, we've been down there, we've argued with them, but we're talking about going down there and making an alliance, an ongoing alliance, and shit might come up, that's all I'm saying.

TALIESIN: Let's make it a business deal. We're talking about making a political decision. This is politics.

TRAVIS: What if they leave? What if they leave the city, or what if they turn us in to the dragon to save their own asses?

TALIESIN: They could. I doubt they'd leave, that's a terrible waste of an investment.

MARISHA: You're essentially relying on the underbelly of Emon to restore it.

TALIESIN: I am, I'm relying on greed, it tends to be exceedingly reliable.

MARISHA: In your experience.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: In all experience, let's be honest.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

TRAVIS: Said the greedy one to the greedy one.

LIAM: This is one option, are we sure we don't want to seek help–

SAM: Yes, what are our other options?

TALIESIN: I'm curious as to other options.

SAM: We know why the dragons are here, right? Ish?

MARISHA: I really feel like it might be necessary for me to also reach out to the Air and Earth and possibly even the Water Ashari. It might be difficult because I haven't been there yet. To see if they've had any other tears through the other elemental planes.

TALIESIN: That would be quite wise.

MARISHA: We can also seek to employ their services.

TRAVIS: Scanlan.

SAM: Huh?

TRAVIS: What about you becoming a spy?

SAM: I've been thinking about that, long and hard.

MARISHA: Have you?

SAM: Yes.

MARISHA: What are your thoughts?

SAM: Most of what I do is long and hard. And my thoughts are still: fuck you, no way, fuck off.

TRAVIS: So what you're saying is?

SAM: Maybe.

(laughter)

LIAM: So you're saying there's a chance.

TRAVIS: Your shining moment–

TALIESIN: Nothing is ever going to top the triceratops, really.

SAM: Maybe the triceratops could kill all the dragons.

TRAVIS: All right. So we reach out to the Ashari.

TALIESIN: Absolutely.

SAM: How's your homeland?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

SAM: Do we need to find out?

TALIESIN: I would love to.

SAM: You can transport there instantly.

TALIESIN: I can. I just can't get back instantly.

LAURA: You need Keyleth.

TALIESIN: And I figure that they would have sent somebody at this point if things had gone– they have an instant transport to us if they need to find us.

SAM: True.

LAURA: Unless they don't know about the stone and the only one with the stone–

TALIESIN: The Council knows about the stone.

TRAVIS: Or there's no one left to send.

LIAM: Yes, if things went south–

TALIESIN: We would've heard.

MARISHA: I can scry twice today.

TALIESIN: That would be lovely.

MARISHA: I can do it two times. So we need to pick where it's most important to check in versus where we might want to pop in and say hello.

TALIESIN: Whitestone is also somewhere we could arm ourselves more completely against something like this. We're going to have to start–

TRAVIS: With what?

MATT: As a note, too, Pike can also scry as well.

LAURA: Oh, good. Because I would like to check in to Vasselheim as well.

SAM: How do you kill a dragon? Do we need a dragon? Can we get a dragon that hates these dragons? Is that a thing?

LAURA: You know, there is the Slayer's Take.

TRAVIS: Wait, what are we talking about dragons? Do other dragons hate dragons?

SAM: Yeah, could we find a dragon who could fight for us?

LAURA: Well, there's metallic dragons.

LIAM: Don't get along with chromatic.

SAM: Do we know any metallic dragons?

TRAVIS: Yeah, where are they?

MARISHA: We would have to go to Vasselheim and maybe–

TALIESIN: My Aunt Edna.

TRAVIS: What?

TALIESIN: She's a dragon-lady, I don't know if that's the same thing.

MARISHA: Like, oh, like she– little ceramic dragons, she likes collecting them?

TALIESIN: I was mocking him, yes.

SAM: So, wait, the Slayer's Take, what?

LAURA: Well, it's an organization made to hunt massive creatures, isn't it?

LIAM: It's a horde of fucking ass-kickers, is what it is.

TALIESIN: We fought a dragon– we killed a dragon for them.

MARISHA: They're also rooted in Vasselheim, which is–

SAM: It's safe.

LAURA: Yes, but– If everything else is under attack, Vasselheim is inevitable.

SAM: Yes, but they're protected.

LAURA: For a time.

LIAM: Allow me to play tiefling's advocate. If we leave now and allow the Clasp to take hold and form some sort of new shadow government, without us having any part in it, it's out of our control completely. It won't be in our control at all. But maybe if we speak to them now, we'll have a better idea of what's going on. I'm not sold on any idea yet, but if we leave now and let things play out, it's entirely out of our hands.

MARISHA: All right, well, how about this? We can scry, between Pike and I, four times. So we can make four phone calls today.

SAM: Not phone calls, just a look.

MARISHA: Yes, look home. No, we can peek through a window. And we can try and go visit the Clasp.

SAM: Okay, well, let's scry it up, then. Who are we calling? Whitestone, Vasselheim, center of Emon?

TALIESIN: Whitestone and Vasselheim, I think. Definitely.

MARISHA: And I want to check in with–

TRAVIS: Can I object to checking the center of Emon, right? Because that's where the Cinder King is?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Didn't it, like, ruin magic when we did it to the beholder, didn't it see us and laugh and we were like, augh, it hurts my brain–

TALIESIN: He's got a point. You've got a point.

SAM: You're pretty smart, Grog.

MARISHA: We don't need to scry into Emon.

TRAVIS: I remember.

LIAM: We're talking Vasselheim, yeah? Whitestone. And you can do it another two–

MARISHA: You know what, let's go talk to Pike, because Pike might possibly have some sort of spiritual connection with Vasselheim as well that might save us a scry.

TALIESIN: It's possible that Vasselheim might be our next stop after we secure everything here.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Oh, Pike! Oh.

MARISHA: I can also teleport us once today, if we decide to go anywhere.

SAM: Thanks.

MARISHA: Pike!

SAM: Pike! Pikey!

MATT: Comes out, a little bit of dirt on her brow, looks like she's been busy handling some of the folks–

SAM: I reach out and brush the dirt from above her forehead.

MATT: She smiles and pushes your hand away. “Yes, what, yes?”

MARISHA: Pike, do you have any sort of spiritual connection with Vasselheim? Do you feel– you know how–

MATT: “I do. I do. Why?”

MARISHA: Okay, can you check–

SAM: Can you scry?

MARISHA: Can you see if they're okay? We want to scry and check in with a few places.

MATT: “Of course, of course, no worries.” She ushers you guys back into the temple.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: And then gets a little nervous when she starts thinking about it and walks up to the central platform of prayer and takes out her holy symbol. Her armor's off right now, by the way, she's in her ceremonial robes. Because it's hard to clank around in armor amongst a bunch of refugees. Sits down and focuses for a second, and pulls out some salt, and begins spreading it into a small triangular shape around her, and then pulls her holy symbol out and closes her eyes, and for that moment, you can see a beam of sunlight come through the roof, the glass roof of the temple, which then refracts into multiple colors that slowly dissipate around her. You can see, everyone else that has gathered in the room falls quiet, and watches on as there is this tiny little visual miracle. And she stays there for a moment. A few more moments. Probably about 30, 40 seconds pass before the light slowly retracts back up through the glass, and she stands up and turns around and goes, “Vasselheim seems fine for now. Untouched from the dragon's scourge, at the very least.”

MARISHA & LAURA: That's good.

TALIESIN: What of Whitestone?

MATT: “Oh. Yes.” She gets right back down into position with an air of begrudging acceptance. Focuses for a second. Spends a few more moments in her scrying ritual before stepping back, and turns slowly to you, Percy, and says, “Whitestone seems fairly overlooked by these dragons as well. The town rebuilds. People seem to be going about their lives. Possibly none the wiser as to what's

"transpired this side of Tal'Dorei.”

TALIESIN: We'll send word, at the very least.

LAURA: It's all over the water. Maybe the dragons haven't gone that far.

TALIESIN: It's far north. I'll make sure to send word.

MATT: “Okay.” One of the kids starts crying, and she goes, “Oh, hold on.” And goes over and starts tending to one of the children who has like a knee brace on, and is currently aching, and she goes to help calm him down. “Shh, shh.”

LIAM: Do you think you could look in on Syngorn?

MARISHA: Of course.

LAURA: Mostly to see, you know.

MARISHA: I step up to the table, and begin my scrying ritual, checking on Syngorn first.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Come on.

TALIESIN: We need like cups and string or something.

SAM: We do. Or a walkie-talkie. He's saying, Syngorn is gone.

LAURA: Don't say that.

TALIESIN: Millions dead.

LAURA: Millions. It's very large.

TRAVIS: Remember to shop at Gilmore's Ruined Rubble.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh no, he didn't even get a new franchise before it was–

TALIESIN: For all your reclaimed wood needs.

TRAVIS: Oh. Well done. Well done. That was nice.

TALIESIN: The best was watching Laura go, “Oh what a great i– ooh.”

TRAVIS: And endless supply of pavers and gravel.

SAM: Gilmore's Building Supplies.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: All your home improvements.

MATT: Back to your regularly scheduled D&D game.

SAM: What did you see, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Syngorn is gone. And I don't mean destroyed, I don't mean burnt. I don't mean that it's rubble, I mean it's gone. The city is gone. There's, like, a huge chasm, a huge empty spot in the middle of the forest where Syngorn once lied. Lie.

SAM: Lay. Did it look like it was destroyed to nothing? Or transported somewhere?

MARISHA: Like that. Like transported, like the city was lifted out of its place and was teleported elsewhere.

SAM: Could it have been– I don't know how your scrying works– could it have been some sort of a magical block? Not real, an illusion of some sort?

MATT: I would like Vax and Vex to both roll a history check.

LAURA: Any kind of advantage on that? For growing up there or something?

MATT: Nope, that's– you get to roll this because of that.

LIAM: History?

TALIESIN: Should have stayed in school.

LIAM: Didn't help.

LAURA: Eight.

LIAM: 15.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Can I take a roll just for being a nerd?

LIAM: All out of luck.

MATT: Are you proficient in history?

TALIESIN: I am proficient in history.

MATT: Sure, I'll let you roll.

TALIESIN: I want a nerd roll. 24. Book reading!

MATT: Okay. Being the astute researcher, the indoor kid growing up. Yeah. There aren't a lot of books that made their way north about pure elven culture, especially wooded elves, that comprise the entirety of the Syngorn nation.

TALIESIN: I speak Elven, so that's good.

(laughter)

MATT: It has rarely come into play, but because of previous wars, terrible devastation, and the need for the elvish culture to protect itself, and to maintain its existence, you do know that there have been instances of large enchantments on places of cultural importance that would bridge between here and the Feywild. And as a defense mechanism, essentially, would cloak and/or shift those locations.

TALIESIN: They've gone into hiding.

MARISHA: How can you be sure?

TALIESIN: I can't, but there's reason to believe so. It's what it points to.

LIAM: What points to what? What are you talking about?

TALIESIN: Historically, elves have, in times of great stress, taken important sites, important places, people, and either cloaked them, hidden them, or moved them into the Feywild until such time as the danger has passed. There is precedence for this. They've gone into hiding.

LAURA: Great.

LIAM: That's one more thing our father failed to impart to us.

LAURA: (laughs cynically) At least he's safe.

TALIESIN: Most likely.

MARISHA: I need to check in on the Air Ashari. I'm going to spend my last scrying.

MATT: Okay. As your vision separates from your current place of origin, you find yourself drifting up into the clouds and speeding through the air. The location itself is blurred, though recalling the origin of where you originally came from, you pass by columns of black smoke to your left, you assume somewhere related to Westrunn's current location.

MARISHA: Right.

MATT: Eventually, the clouds part, and you find yourself thrust down upon the earth amongst the center of the Air Ashari tribe. You can see the thin leather constructs that make up a portion of your people's hovels and buildings. You can see the nearby chasm-based windfall that pours through constantly with a gentle whistling sound that forever is marked as the chorus that guides you all to sleep every evening. There, you can see your people amongst various conversations, going amongst their various daily duties, seemingly untouched, unscathed, and unaware of what recent events had transpired.

MARISHA: They're okay.

MATT: That is the last of your scrying capability for the day.

TALIESIN: You didn't have to know that. Big girls don't scry. Sorry, I saw it on Netflix.

LAURA: Wow. Wow. Hit after hit after hit today, Taliesin.

LIAM: You know, just because you can, doesn't mean you should.

TALIESIN: I know. I know. Coffee hasn't kicked in yet.

MARISHA: All right, they're okay. They seem unaware, which is very disheartening on a few levels.

TALIESIN: Well, they'll know soon enough.

MARISHA: Exactly.

TALIESIN: We are going to need transport.

SAM: To where?

TALIESIN: Ah. I don't think we're going to win this fight staying here, I think we're going to have to rally power, I think we're going to have to rally allies. I don't think there's enough here for us to win.

LAURA: Can we relocate all of the refugees staying in our walls? Can we bring everyone through the Sun Tree? Keyleth? How long does it stay open?

MARISHA: Six seconds.

TALIESIN: We can go in shifts. This is not something that's going to be solved tomorrow. We can take a week, and move people.

LIAM: That's true. And there's 50 to 100 refugees, you said, something like that, right?

MATT: At this point now, in your keep, surviving, you're looking at the 30s.

LIAM: 30s?

SAM: But there's hundreds more inside the city walls. Thousands.

TALIESIN: We're going– we're not going to be able to empty the city.

LAURA: But we can at least get these people out.

TALIESIN: We can get these people out. And we're going to need– and I apologise for the brightness in my voice– I think we're going to need an airship.

LAURA: An airship sounds wonderful, Percy, but–

LIAM: You mean like the one that crashed?

TALIESIN: Like the one that crashed.

LAURA: One dragon attacking it and it's down.

TALIESIN: We're going to need to move quickly, though, from city to city, and we're going to need to get word.

MARISHA: Well, moving quickly from city to city– I don't know.

TALIESIN: We may have to steal an airship or something.

SAM: You're going to steal a plane?

TALIESIN: I'm making a plan. I'm thinking of a plan.

LAURA: You keep thinking, there.

TALIESIN: It's working.

MARISHA: Well, I mean, I've recently discovered that that misty Wind Walk spell that I cast on all of us is not great for battle, but is great for travel. And that lasts for eight hours.

SAM: What does? Who?

MARISHA: Remember how I failed and almost killed us all?

TRAVIS: Shit the bed. Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. Thanks, Grog. What I learned out of that was it's not great for battle, but it is great for travel. It lasts for eight hours. We can move 300 feet per second.

LAURA: Wonderful. We get the refugees out, we go to Whitestone, we talk to them there, we use the Misty Walk thingy and go to Vasselheim, talk to the Slayer's Take. This is perfect. Problem–

SAM: Are we going to check in with the Clasp? I really like Percy's idea about stealing a plane. I'm just throwing that out there.

TALIESIN: There is an empty airdock that's currently not being used in the city.

LAURA: Do we need a ship right now, darling? I understand the joy in it.

TALIESIN: We don't need it now, but we're going to be– need to move–

SAM: We could take all of these refugees with us. Don't you understand? We would be helping humanity.

MARISHA: I'm with Vex. You all honestly–

LAURA: – believe a dragon wouldn't notice a giant airship flying out of the city?

SAM: Not if we hide it with some– some smokescreen action of some sort.

LIAM: Guys. This is an RPG, not a JRPG.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I want to live like Teddy Ruxpin. This is all I've ever wanted.

(laughter)

LAURA: We need to talk to the Clasp first.

SAM: All right, let's go talk to the Clasp. We'll ask them what they think about–

LAURA: Plus Allura and Drake are coming back. We need to talk to them as well. Find out what's going on in Westrunn. And then we need to get everyone out.

MARISHA: I can transport some of us via plants today. I will have to sleep if we want and study to do the Misty Step again.

LAURA: I've got a plan.

TALIESIN: We have time. This is not a one-day plan.

LAURA: Here's a good plan. This is a good plan, though.

LIAM: Here it comes, everybody.

LAURA: Open up the tree. Send a bunch of refugees through.

MARISHA: Shove a bunch in.

LAURA: Shove them through as fast as possible. Percy. You go with them. We keep the stone. You go through. You talk to your sister. You bamf back with the stone.

MARISHA: Let Whitestone know what's going on. Because they're going to freak out if like–

LAURA: And then we talk to the Clasp together.

TALIESIN: I think that's a good plan.

MARISHA: They will freak out if 20 refugees pour out of the Sun Tree. And they have no context.

TRAVIS: Do that first.

MARISHA: Okay. So wait, are you going to go on your mission while we go talk to the Clasp?

LAURA: No, we're going to wait for you. So can we get the refugees together?

MATT: All right, so as you go into the temple and get Pike's attention, you begin to round up the refugees, which as a statement, historically, is already unnerving. You begin to push them all together in a group and tell them what?

LAURA: Well, we comfort them and tell them: all right, obviously Emon is not a safe place to be right now.

MATT: “No, that's true, that's true! It's terrible here!”

LAURA: It's dangerous, and we want to keep all of you as safe as possible.

MATT: “Yes, and thank you for taking us.” Everyone starts cheering.

LAURA: We have a plan.

SAM: We probably can only take a few. It should be women and children.

LAURA: We're going to take those of you who need the most attention first, and we're going to bring you to Whitestone, which is a city that has not been affected by dragons at all. It has much need of people who can do an honest day's labor, and you can earn a wage and find a living there, for the time being, and if at some point in time you want to come back to Emon when all of this is done, of course you're more than welcome to.

LIAM: There is opportunity.

MARISHA: And no dragons!

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: I'm rolling the gold one! 20?

MATT: Okay! A couple of folks currently, (muttering) “I've never been to Whitestone! Is it cold?”

LAURA: In the winter.

MATT: “It's winter!”

LAURA: Then it could be a little chilly!

SAM: Bundle up! We'll give you some wool blankets for the trip!

MATT: “Okay?”

LIAM: There's definitely no vampires there. None.

MATT: A couple of kids go, “Vampires, sir?”

LAURA: I like that we're sending to them to the place that's got the orb of death.

MATT: “What was that? What'd you say?”

SAM: No, nothing, she didn't say anything.

LAURA: I said, “You might be able to see your breath!”

MATT: “Winter! Right! Okay, let's grab our things!” And some of the folks start getting their things together. Packing up their things– what they had on their back, essentially, as they rushed here. Shake a few out of their shell-shock, and they all gather up towards the center of the Temple of Sarenrae.

LAURA: Percy– stone. To go through the–

TALIESIN: I already gave it to Keyleth.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: DM question? How many do you think I can fit through in six seconds?

MATT: We'll find out!

MARISHA: If I put them in like a line, and we're like, “Go! Go! Go!”

MATT: That's up to you guys! How do you want to do this?

LIAM: They can't get– no one can get cut in half, can they?

LAURA: Well I assume, as soon as we see it start to shrink, we stop! We cut off the line.

MARISHA: Well, what we should do– here's the thing that I'm worried about. We don't want, like, a kid to go through, and then they get separated from their mom.

TRAVIS: Well, everybody's got to grow up at some point.

LAURA: Anybody with children. How many children are here?

MATT: I'd say you have seven children.

LAURA: Children with their moms go– and families go first.

LIAM: Well, we were saying that the terribly injured, the people with the worst injuries–

LAURA: All right, those people first!

LIAM: Yeah, those people first.

TRAVIS: Yeah, because they'll go through real fast.

LIAM: And then with kids– But they need attention now! They need–

SAM: Hey! We're going to be doing this every day for several days.

TALIESIN: Hey, I've got a weird theory. Let's not send people with injuries yet, so that perhaps Pike can stay here and take care of them for a little bit?

LAURA: Oh! Good call, okay! So the injured can stay.

TRAVIS: Can't we put them on a wagon? Can't we like put them on a wagon, down and like–

TALIESIN: We don't want to lose a wagon to Whitestone.

SAM: This is just how Schindler did it, by the way.

LAURA: What!?

SAM: He debated it for a while, and then– (nervous laughter).

LIAM: No words! No words!

TRAVIS: And the room goes silent, and the mug comes up.

LAURA: Okay. So not the injured.

Families first. How about that?

TALIESIN: We'll count to six, and then we'll put the rope down, and when we hit six, we pull the rope, and it'll hold everybody–

SAM: Wait, there's a rope?

LAURA: As soon as we see it start to shrink, I'll hold the people back.

TALIESIN: Yes, hold the people back.

LAURA: So Percy, you're first, everybody follow through. So any families here? Families?

MATT: Some of the kids raise their hands, some adults go over and they grab kids' hands and stand next to them. “Yes.”

LAURA: Are you really respons– I can tell when you're lying, sir. Are you responsible for that child?

MATT: Make an insight check.

LAURA: 26!

MATT: Ha! Two of those people are definitely just taking a kid's hand in hopes of getting through first.

TRAVIS: I walk in and start cracking my knuckles behind Vex.

MATT: “Well, I mean, I can wait, no worries! Eh–”

LAURA: Child, where's your parents? Do you have one?

MATT: “They haven't shown up yet.”

LAURA: Oh, dear.

SAM: Leave them here, in case the parents come.

LAURA: Okay. Then you would stay and wait for your family, potentially?

LIAM: You can stay with Pike, for now.

MATT: Pike comes over and pats him on the shoulder. They're the same height, so it's easy.

MARISHA: Let's do completed full families who are comfortable relocating.

LAURA: That can move. Here we go.

MATT: Altogether, completed full families, there are two.

MARISHA: How many people?

MATT: It'd be a total of eight people.

LAURA: That's good! That's a good amount!

TRAVIS: Yeah, think about it! One one thousand, one one thousand–

LAURA: And then, any other like single people that can move fast?

MARISHA: Yeah, a couple single people? To bring up the rear?

MATT: Okay. You have about ten more people that raise their hands.

TALIESIN: We can get that many through in six seconds.

SAM: What are you talking about?

LAURA: Get ready to run, people.

MARISHA: All right. So let's go to the tree. Percy, you're going to lead. Percy, you're going to lead. We're going to put the eight up front, with the ten, 15 stragglers behind. I tell them all: all right. As soon as you see that tree start to part, run! Run your face off! I tell that to the crowd.

TALIESIN: And keep running. So that you make room for everyone behind you, we don't want like– it's not the bottom of an escalator. Whatever that is. It's a thing I've been working on, it's going to be great.

MARISHA: Don't stop in the tree, you will create terrible congestion.

LAURA: Everybody comfortable with the plan?

SAM: Can I inspire Keyleth for this?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Okay, I will perform a limerick for her to inspire her. I know an airheaded young druid / whose plans are more gassy than fluid / when the battle starts / she turns her pals into farts / they see danger and pass right through it!

MARISHA: Thank you, Scanlan. I love it. It's so like me.

MATT: Take a 1d10 inspiration die.

TRAVIS: I hate to be the detail-oriented one about this whole thing, but should somebody be counting as soon as she starts so we put down an arm at six?

LAURA: You count in your head, Grog.

TRAVIS: You really don't want me to do that.

MARISHA: Maybe with my inspiration, I can get a few more seconds in there?

MATT: We shall see. I'll say for the sake of this, go ahead and roll a wisdom check.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

MATT: A d20 and add your wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: Oh, that's not good.

SAM: You've got inspiration if you need it.

MARISHA: Can I add my inspiration to this?

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's good. That helps a lot. What am I adding? Just my straight wisdom?

MATT: Yep, wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: My modifier? 19 total.

MATT: 19 total, okay. So as you all gather around in the center of the temple, Keyleth, you step up to the outside of one of the two front trees to the temple, one of the ones you guys usually use to transport to and from here. As you focus in and reach your hand out and touch the outside of the tree's bark, with a rough tearing sound, the tree bark widens into an oval-shaped doorway that is immediately visible. On the opposite side, you can see before you a lightly snow-dappled landscape that is the central market of Whitestone.

LAURA: We put blankets on everybody, right?

MATT: From what you had.

MARISHA: Go! Go! Now, run, go! Go, Percy, go!

MATT: Who's pushing?

TALIESIN: I'm already through.

MATT: Percy's through. All right, are you guys just letting them go at their own rate?

TRAVIS: (shouting) Move your fucking asses!

MATT: Roll an intimidation check.

MARISHA: It's like a football line.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17. With that, everyone goes, (startled noise) and starts charging through wildly. The crowd starts pushing through.

MARISHA: I'm trying to hold it.

LIAM: No severed limbs, no whammies!

MATT: Okay. All of the rest– the family people go through, the young folks push through. You manage to get a total of 23 people through.

(cheering)

MATT: Some folks who weren't even planning to go on this were so driven by the sudden shouting Grog voice echoing from behind that they charged forward Black Friday-style, and managed to escape the tail end of the spell tapering the doorway off.

LIAM: “I regret nothing!”

SAM: Well, I hope Percy comes back soon.

MARISHA: I've got the gatestone.

MATT: Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm going to get everybody organized. Everyone, please follow me. We're heading towards the main castle.

MATT: They're all looking around.

TALIESIN: Welcome to Whitestone.

MATT: A gentle snowfall is coming down. The sky itself you can see is covered in light, white

clouds. Just enough moisture to carry the little snowfall that's happening. There are folks in the center of the town that are surprised to see this arrival, but recognize you and cheer a little bit. “Hey! Percival.”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Thank you for that smattering of applause. Golf claps, please. Golf claps.

MATT: The refugees all gather up behind you, and you guys walk towards Castle Whitestone.

TALIESIN: We make our way to the castle.

MATT: The guards greet you and lead you inside. And within a few minutes, Cassandra comes down from the upper floor. “Percival, you've returned.”

TALIESIN: Things are not going well. Have you heard any news of Emon and what has been transpiring there?

MATT: “No, we've been focused on restoring our city. Why?”

TALIESIN: Yesterday, we were attacked by a group of chromatic dragons. The city is destroyed. There's no simple way to say this, but we're under siege. We were afraid that Whitestone would be destroyed, as well, but it seems that they have passed over you so far, but we fear for many cities' safety. I was hoping that it would be all right if we moved a small number of refugees through to Whitestone for the time being. Less than a hundred, I imagine. These are the first 20-some-odd that we've pulled through.

MATT: And she looks behind you, looks to the crowd, snaps her fingers. Some of the guards step forward, she goes, “Please, if you would make sure to find any of the various unoccupied buildings are provided to these refugees. Thank you.” And the guards nod, and begin gathering the group and sending them back into town, and she gives you a look back and says, “For better or for worse, we happen to have a number of vacancies in the city due to recent events. But–”

TALIESIN: Oh! Well, yes. Nothing I– Anything I should know about?

MATT: “No, just– We've lost many in the struggle against the Briarwoods. But yes, they will be provided for, I assure you.”

TALIESIN: So I will let you know to stop all business with Emon for now. Be very wary, prepare the city for a possible dragon attack. Things are looking dark.

MATT: “Yes, yes.”

TALIESIN: And if it's possible, any research– any energy that can be put forward towards mounting some sort of defense against these creatures would be greatly appreciated.

MATT: “Right, right, well, we had a few individuals that were researching the ziggurat beneath the city. Two left a while back and we had one arrive just the other day.”

TALIESIN: Who arrived the other day?

MATT: “I cannot recall his name– Realm Seeker, Realm Seer– I'm not–”

LAURA: (whispering) Eskil Ryndarien!

TALIESIN: Please bring me to him.

MATT: All right, Cassandra leads you down into the city again, and one of the houses has been provided, she knocks on the door, the door opens and you see stepping out, an older gentleman who you've heard of but not really had an encounter with since– no, actually you encountered him for the final ritual that took the phylactery from Grog's chest.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: But this is Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, the archmage that basically was one of the folks who lived within Westruun and was called to Whitestone as part of research–

TALIESIN: That's some pre-stream stuff, everybody.

MATT: As the door opens, he comes out, eyes adjusting to the light, and you can see the interior is very dark. He's one of those live-in-lightless-territory types of person. Comes out with his round spectacles around his nose, his robe is disheveled, bundled over his shoulders, he goes, “Yes, if I may be of service–?”

TALIESIN: We've met! You look very familiar.

MATT: “Quite! Yes we have. You're with those S.H.I.T.s, weren't you?”

TALIESIN: (laughing) Ah, yes.

MATT: “Unfortunate title you've chosen–”

TALIESIN: Long gone, thankfully, long gone. We're Vox Machina–

MATT: “Good! Vox Machina, glad you took my suggestion.”

TALIESIN: Yes, thank you for that.

(laughing)

MATT: “What can I do for you?”

TALIESIN: Well, first of all, how goes the research into the–

MATT: “Frustrating, to say the least. It appears that this entire–” and he walks back into the house, expecting you guys to follow. As you enter, immediately you're hit with the smell of sage and other burning herbs, and you can see there's a vast number of books that are strewn about the table in front. The fireplace in the back is pouring smoke up into the roof area and soot's starting to gather on the stonework on the outside. Looks like there's two or three different kettles going off with different types of tea. It's complete chaos in here, but he seems to be in control of most of it, at least. He goes, “From best we can ascertain, this is some sort of a magical siphon device. It has prevented us from utilizing any sort of ritualistic endeavors in ascertaining its nature, it's quite perplexing. I'm hoping to either head over to Wildemount, or perhaps return to the Cobalt Reserve and perhaps find some historical information about such an object, but nothing in my current–”

TALIESIN: Well, sir, I have some bad news for you. I hail from Emon, which has been attacked by chromatic dragons–

MATT: “I'm sorry, what?”

TALIESIN: Dragons have declared war on civilization. A group of dragons have destroyed our city, and they have destroyed other cities as well. We are in desperate need of powers to defend ourselves with– So I would be very careful and send forward– Send word ahead of yourself before you travel anywhere, it may not be there by the time you get there.

MATT: “Well, I guess it's good that I moved my tower before I left.”

TALIESIN: Things are looking grim and I would ask while you– If you intend to remain and work on your research on this anomaly beneath our city, perhaps thinking as to how it may be turned into a weapon for our use against these creatures would not be out of the realm of question, and any information you do have of the chromatic dragons would be invaluable. Any research that can be done. We are at war.

MATT: “This is very disconcerting news. I will do what I can. Unfortunately, I'd have to get back to the Cobalt Reserve. That's where most of my research is completed.”

TALIESIN: That's Westruun?

MATT: “Let me see. Jeckt–” And he snaps his fingers, and you can see his manservant, Jeckt, who you've met before, slicked-back darkish red hair, mustache, very prim and proper-type manservant, well-dressed, steps out of the shadows. “Yes, my lord?” “If you would be so kind, prepare me for travel, pack up this–”

TALIESIN: Westruun is no more, sir.

MATT: “Well, that's really frustrating!”

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: “Really.”

TALIESIN: Extremely aggravating.

MATT: “Yes. I am unhappy with this circumstance! How am I supposed to do my research without a place to do my research?!”

TALIESIN: Well, we hope that you will find our winters here quite solitary, and convenient on that level. Things are looking grim.

MATT: “Well, you can say that again.”

TALIESIN: I must go. I have other work to do to start preparing–

TRAVIS: Peace!

MATT: “Yes, yes go! Do your thing!”

TALIESIN: Good day, sir. And good luck to you.

MATT: “Should I find anything, how will I– whereabouts– Where are you?”

TALIESIN: We don't know yet, but we will be returning here.

MATT: “That does not help me. I will do my best.”

TALIESIN: Cassandra will be able to get a hold of me if necessary.

MATT: “Ah, Cassandra. All right! Someone of use around here.”

TALIESIN: I am going to go find my sister and make my way to the stone.

MATT: He doesn't even say goodbye to you. He's completely flustered. It's funny. For everyone who's taken completely by the horror of the situation, he just seems really perturbed about the–

TRAVIS: Inconvenience of it all.

MATT: Yeah, it's so inconvenient. That library was very helpful.

TALIESIN: Why isn't the internet working! (frustrated noise)

MATT: Basically. You find your way to Cassandra again. She's waiting outside of the room. “I hope he's been helpful, brother”

TALIESIN: No, he wasn't helpful, but it was very helpful the way he wasn't helpful.

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: It's a strange, strange–

MATT: “He's a very strange man.”

TALIESIN: Everything's going to be all right.

MATT: “I hope so.”

TALIESIN: Thank you. I will return very soon. We will, again with your permission, hopefully be using Whitestone as a place to regroup and prepare ourselves.

MATT: “Is there worry that these dragons might come here?”

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: “How will we stop them?”

TALIESIN: You'll hide. I have thoughts, perhaps of a weapon. I don't know. But we're going to find a way to stop them.

MATT: “We have to.”

TALIESIN: I'm not good at being the bearer of any bad news, but this is very dangerous and I don't know what we're going to do.

SAM: (whispers) Steal an airplane.

MATT: “Neither do I.”

TALIESIN: (whispers) They don't have an airplane.

MATT: “Stay safe, Percival.”

TALIESIN: I shall return soon.

MATT: “I hope so. We'll do what we can in the meantime to see to your refugees and hopefully try and prepare ourselves.”

TALIESIN: There will be a few more through, possibly tomorrow, with word.

MATT: “All right. We'll be prepared. Thank you.” She reaches out and puts her hand on yours, again, and looks you sternly in the face and goes, “Be careful.”

TALIESIN: I will.

MATT: “You're all I have left.”

TALIESIN: And Cassandra, I'm proud of you. You're doing very well here.

MATT: “There's still a ways to go, brother.”

TALIESIN: We'll get there.

MATT: She hands you the gatestone. And with that, there's a slight popping sound as you're in a very soft bit of bluish-purple light. Your body slowly subsides and fades into nothing before it (poof) vanishes out of existence. As you guys are back at the keep, suddenly, who has the gatestone? As you're holding it, it begins to shake in your hand and give off a warm light.

MARISHA: I think our reservation's ready.

SAM: I'm telling the, what, seven remaining refugees?

MATT: You have about eight or nine.

SAM: Sorry you didn't make it through. It doesn't mean that you'll be here forever. We'll get you there tomorrow. No big. Don't worry about it.

LAURA: More food for you guys, which is A+.

MATT: At which point now, there's a slight smell of burnt cedar before the air itself begins to sound like a light hum or vibration as suddenly Percy's form (poof) appears in the center of the room next to your gatestone. Both of the stones you guys are holding all of a sudden become white-hot, and you instinctively drop them before they tumble to the ground.

LAURA: Hey! They work!

TALIESIN: They hurt. Good to know.

SAM: That's great. Did you see your sister?

TALIESIN: I did, everything is fine up there, the research continues. They're happy to take people.

LAURA: That's wonderful.

TALIESIN: So, and they are prepared for more. They're also happy to be a base of operations as we put things together.

LAURA: And you told them to make preparations in case something happens?

TALIESIN: Whatever preparations one can make for something like this, to be prepared to hide. (sighs) For now.

LIAM: In the worst-case scenario they can go underground.

TALIESIN: Worst-case scenario, they can go underground, yes.

LAURA: They need to start hiding food.

TALIESIN: They have to grow food, they haven't really recovered that yet. There's also a–

MARISHA: Hopefully I hooked them up there.

TALIESIN: I have one of those terrible ideas I get on occasion.

SAM: What is it? I love it.

TALIESIN: That thing beneath Whitestone could be a weapon.

SAM: How?

TRAVIS: Ooh, that's true.

LAURA: Anything touching it disintegrates.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Like a dragon.

SAM: Do you shoot it at something?

TALIESIN: I might be able to turn it into a projectile.

LAURA: How would you turn it to a projectile– are you okay, Keyleth?

LIAM: It is a fun idea–

TALIESIN: A long-term idea.

MARISHA: Just choking on Percy's idea.

TALIESIN: I can make an antimagic missile.

MARISHA: What– a magic– a magic missile? An antimagic missile?

TALIESIN: An antimagic missile.

LIAM: One plus one plus two plus one.

LAURA: One plus two plus one plus one!

SAM: That's a great idea.

TALIESIN: I've been– I've been mulling it over.

SAM: Could we fire it from an airship of some sort?

TALIESIN: Yes, I have– that's actually part of the idea.

MARISHA: Percy, when I tried to touch that thing it was like it was sucking me in. I don't think that thing and me touched. How are we going to turn it into a projectile?

TALIESIN: I have thoughts, I'm going to follow them through, and it may require some experimentation in the future, but I think perhaps–

MARISHA: At the cost of possibly your life?

TALIESIN: I take my life into my hands any time I build something. I think that a non-magical approach to containing it might actually work. I think the problem is–

LAURA: Well that's good, because it cancels out any magic–

TALIESIN: I think the problem is that we keep trying to magic our way out of something that denies magic, and maybe I can engineer our way out of it.

MARISHA: Have they found anything out, did you get any updates?

TALIESIN: A little bit of information, there will be more later. I'm going to take a look at all the data and see if it's possible.

SAM: Should we go visit the Clasp?

TRAVIS: Oh, please.

TALIESIN: I'm trying to be more open.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go!

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this time? It's pretty close to dusk, the sun is getting close to the mountain line, you probably have another hour of daylight.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: To the Clasp?

TRAVIS: Yeah, they're probably nocturnal anyway. That means they're around at night.

TALIESIN: They're not turtles, no.

MARISHA: Did you learn something new, Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: All right, you guys heading back into Emon?

SAM: Everyone? Some? All?

TALIESIN: I think Pike should stay behind to take care for–

MARISHA: You seem to have reservations–

SAM: Vex, are you okay going down there? You're marked for death by these people.

LAURA: I've been down there several times without knowing that.

SAM: I know, I feel like it might put you on edge.

LIAM: She's not marked for death, she was marked for death, it's just awkward. It's awkward. I'm not a full-fledged member, they don't like me. I don't like them!

LAURA: Maybe I can become a member.

LIAM: Maybe you can.

TALIESIN: This is politics, you're not supposed to like them.

LIAM: Well, let's go, then.

TRAVIS: Yeah! What he said.

MATT: You guys taking the tunnel or you walking in?

LAURA: Taking the tunnel, we're taking the secret entrance–

TRAVIS: Oh come on, we're never even– we've not even walked in yet.

LAURA: Garthok showed us the secret entrance, he's waiting for us and having them prepare our way, this could get bad.

MATT: No, are you guys walking through your tunnel to the city, is what I'm saying.

LAURA: Oh! That! Yes. Cool.

LIAM: We're not going to walk in the open.

SAM: What are we doing?

LAURA: We're taking our secret tunnel into the city.

SAM: Okay. It puts us in the wrong side of the city, but it's okay.

LAURA: What else are we going to do?

MARISHA: (coughing)

LAURA: How you doing there? You okay?

MARISHA: I'm good. Mm-hmm. Sorry. I got a piece of chip stuck.

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to leave one with Vax.

TRAVIS: What is it?

TALIESIN: I'm giving Vax my gatestone.

LIAM: That's a good idea.

TALIESIN: I'm giving you the other one.

LIAM: For now, it's a good idea, I won't hold onto it forever.

TALIESIN: He's the one who's going to get stuck in a room alone if they decide they don't like him.

LIAM: Can we call this the Jenga stone? In moments of need.

TALIESIN: Jenga stone. Remember, it takes about a minute to work.

LIAM: Do I need to spend a little time with this?

MATT: No. However, it does work only once a day.

LIAM: Once a day?

MATT: After another long rest you'd be able to use it again.

LIAM: All right. Good to know. All right.

SAM: Into the city.

LAURA: In your pants.

MATT: Like you do. Half-elven storage space. You guys find your way back into Emon, utilizing your secret tunnel entrance, coming up through the false outhouse once again. You leave the chain behind, locking it up, and make your way into the city.

LAURA: Cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

MATT: All right. You guys, I'd like you all to make a stealth check.

TRAVIS: Come on, giant blue nut ball dice.

Natural 20!

LAURA: Aw, it fell out of my hand. I don't think it should count if it fell.

MATT: Nope, too bad.

LAURA: Aw, that's mean. Oh, I get advantage!

SAM: Oh, and we get a plus ten, right?

TALIESIN: 33.

SAM: 15.

MARISHA: 35.

LIAM: 38.

LAURA: 35.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

SAM: Wait. With no judgment, is Trinket coming?

LAURA: Trinket is staying with Pike.

SAM: That's a fine decision.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Hell hath frozen over.

MATT: Placing Trinket over here.

LAURA: Oh! He's crying! I'm crying.

MATT: So as you guys start dodging between the alleyways, making your way towards the north side of Emon, alongside the ruined interior of the Cloudtop District, you instinctually begin to– and I'd say– who else has proficiency in perception?

LIAM: Right here.

MATT: All right. You guys all start noticing there are what looks initially like flocks of birds moving through the sky. Some of them are heading down into parts of the town in the distance. As you continue to push forward, one set of four in particular start heading overhead. You look up and you can see a small cluster of about five or six flying creatures. Not dragon-sized, by any means, but either a very, very large bird or something of that degree. You can't make out the details, as right now as the sun's beginning to set, a lot of it's dark against a red-orange sky. You keep yourself at bay, waiting for them to pass.

MARISHA: Oh, waiting for them to pass?

MATT: Unless you guys want to do something else.

LAURA: As a dragon-favored enemy, could I guesstimate what those winged creatures are that would hang out around dragons?

TRAVIS: Could you determine if they're wyverns?

MATT: Yes. They are actually indeed wyverns. Wivverns. However you want to pronounce it. Both work in my world. It's fine.

LIAM: It's pronounced 'jif'.

MATT: Yes.

(laughter)

MATT: I will fight you. But yeah.

SAM: They're diving into the city?

MATT: You can see a few that dove into city and stayed there. And one group goes overhead, and continues onward.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Pushing forward, deeper into the city, you make your way through the Temple District, and start pushing through Abdar's Promenade once again, retracing your steps from the day before, dodging through open areas as fast as possible to stay within the shadows. All of you go darting into one of the alleyways. As you turn behind you, you can see your tiny-legged gnomish bard friend, keeping up as best as he can before his foot hitting a divot on the ground and (slam) falling face first on the ground, making just enough noise–

SAM: Sorry. Sorry.

MATT: You hear a little screech in the distance. (screech) And coming up on the rooftop, you can see, perched up there, appears to be one wyvern that is looking over down at the currently toppled gnome, and on top of the wyvern, you see something riding it. Something that is holding reins on the edge, something humanoid is glancing over, just a little enough of a shadow, to see.

SAM: He sees me? I see him?

MATT: He looks down at you, yeah.

SAM: Okay. I will cast Hold Person on him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I don't know what he is, but I want him to stop.

LIAM: And Scanlan's the only one– we all see it?

MATT: You all barely see it looking over the edge as Scanlan's there, left in the middle of the main walkway. That is going to be a natural 17 on the will save. That'll be an 18. What's your DC?

SAM: Well, it's 17, but the hand-cone makes it 19.

LAURA: Ah-ha!

SAM: Do you think I had the wherewithal to use it?

MATT: With having you fallen on your face, I'd say probably not. Since it wasn't specified, that would be a DC of 17. So the creature seems to rear back for a second, shake its head, and you get a little bit of a look at the features at this point, too. And it is humanoid, but you can see its outer body is not fleshy, or smooth, it is scaled and bumpy. You can see ridges across the back of the head, and in one of the hands, looks like some sort of a spear. Immediately as it rears back, it puts its head up and goes (guttural gibberish).

LAURA: The creature?

MATT: Yeah, riding on the back of the wyvern.

LAURA: Those are the things that attacked the airship!

SAM: Yes. Possibly.

MATT: I would like you all to roll initiative.

TALIESIN: This is going to be fun.

LAURA: I think you should turn it into a bunny, Keyleth! Turn it into a bunny.

MARISHA: Jesus Christ. I can do that today. Just rolled shitty on my initiative.

LIAM: Not too good.

SAM: (singing) This is the music that plays when we fight!

MATT: All right, so! Scanlan, as you were running across the thoroughfare, you tripped and fell that way.

SAM: That's me!

MATT: The rest of you had come into this alley over here. Currently, looking over the top of this rooftop, is this wyvern and its rider.

MARISHA: I love that the rider is like (derpy noise).

MATT: (imitates derpy noise) It's fine.

MARISHA: Go home, rider, you're drunk.

MATT: That's going to be– 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 26.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20. All right, 20 to 15?

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18, let's see. Vex. 15 to ten?

SAM: Yikes.

MATT: Ten to five?

SAM: Eight! No, seven.

MARISHA: Five.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

TALIESIN: Wow.

LIAM: Uno!

MATT: Plus?

LIAM: Oh, six, thanks for that.

MATT: So you would be– actually, technically, Keyleth, is next to you.

LIAM: That was so crushing, to see the number on the die.

MATT: Aw, sorry buddy. It happens to the best of us. All righty. So. Currently with this guy up on top of the rooftop, Percy, you are first.

TALIESIN: Quick question, is he in flight, or is he just sitting on the rooftop?

MATT: Just sitting on the roof, perched on the edge. You can't even actually see him, everyone else who's near the front can see, the few that made the check. You've got a little bit of movement up there, but you're just out of view with the building– you're right in an alleyway.

TALIESIN: There's no easy way up onto the roof, is there?

MATT: Aside from a well-placed acrobatics check. You could try.

TALIESIN: That would be my whole movement, too, wouldn't it, though?

MATT: Most likely.

TALIESIN: Nah, let's see.

TRAVIS: And how high is the roof?

MATT: I'd say it's about anywhere from 16 to 20 feet tall. It's two-story, but it's not extremely well-built.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try to get a vantage point where I can at least get where he's only three-quarters cover. So I suppose I'm going to head south down the alley to see if I can get a–

MATT: Pushing to these guys?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so one– You can get to about there if you want to.

TALIESIN: I can get a good look at him there.

MATT: You can see, yeah. He'll have half-cover from there.

TALIESIN: Half-cover's fine. So, if I were to knock him prone, would he fall off the roof, or could I try and push him off the roof? These are my–

MATT: For the wyvern, or for the rider?

TALIESIN: The wyvern.

MATT: You can try. It's hard-pressed, he's sturdy on the side, knocking him prone might fall over onto the rooftop. Who knows if it'll slide or not. It's your call. What do you want to try?

TALIESIN: I'll try knocking him prone, and see if that does it.

MATT: Okay!

TALIESIN: Actually–

SAM: Do it!

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's either that or try and push him off the roof, which could be pretty funny. I'll try and knock him prone.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: All right. So I'm going to use Bad News, because that's funnier.

MATT: Okay. So (whoosh) you whip out.

TALIESIN: Take a shot. That's a 28 to hit.

MATT: That'll hit.

TALIESIN: And that's a wing shot, so you have to make a constitution saving throw.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Against 18.

MATT: Well, this is the wing or leg shot, right?

TALIESIN: Wing or leg shot. I'm sorry, that's a– Actually, I'm sorry, I have the new sheet.

MATT: Yeah, new sheet on that one. Updated that.

TALIESIN: Strength saving throw. Sorry, strength saving throw against 18.

MATT: Okay. That's a natural 19 plus four for strength, so that's a 23 on the save.

TALIESIN: Motherfucker, but he'll still take some damage.

MATT: Still takes damage though, go ahead and roll.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another shot at him, too, because eff that. I was not quite prepared for this. 2d12 plus six, four, eight, 14 points of damage.

MATT: 14 points of damage, nice. All right.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take a– reload, take another shot and try and knock him off the roof.

MATT: Go for it. The same shot?

TALIESIN: Same shot. Ugh. That's a three, so that means I–

MATT: Misfire.

SAM: Clank!

MATT: So, first shot of Bad News, (explosion noise) echoes, the sound of the blast rippling through the nearby alleyways, the blast hits the wyvern in part of its arm, sending a spray of blood as it shrieks in pain. As you can see its rider is moved to the side, and you see a second head behind the rider from the reaction of movement. Looks like there's actually two of these creatures riding on the back of this creature. As you go to reload, bring Bad News up again to fire a second time, you pull the trigger and there's a (thump) sound, and you can see now a stream of smoke pouring out the back of the gun itself, and you're a little worried what this is going to do if you don't fix it soon.

TRAVIS: Look down the barrel!

SAM: Yeah, that'll work.

TALIESIN: I can use my– I actually can't do– Am I going to panic and try and fix this?

MATT: Next turn? That's your movement, that's your three attacks, do you have a bonus? Anything?

TALIESIN: I can– I'm going to, I'm going to throw an action surge and see if I can fix this.

MATT: Go for it. Go ahead and make your tinker check.

TALIESIN: Yes! Yeah, 14.

MATT: So you spend your action quickly trying to fix the gun and get Bad News back. You manage to clear the barrel, get the pellet out, as the rest of the team starts coming up with their turns. That'll be the rest of your action. Okay, finishes Percy's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I'd like to hold my turn until it gets off the roof and maybe comes down to the ground.

MATT: Okay, okay, good to know. Let's see here. It appears that my– Taliesin, could you do me a favor and hand me that box next to the fridge there?

TALIESIN: Sure.

MATT: Thank you. All right, so Grog, as you're doing that, the blasting sound of Bad News that echoed through, you all of a sudden start hearing other shrieks in the distance, like a call to arms of a number of other entities.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

MATT: As you see a multitude of other winged creatures begin to arise in the distance.

TALIESIN: I shouldn't have gotten him that box, should I?

MARISHA: Was that in the box?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we could always run, too.

TALIESIN: Could.

SAM: How far are we from the tunnel system? Far.

MATT: You're a ways. Probably a good 25-minute run. There's another one on the roof over here. And there's one on this roof here. Each one of them with their own riders, as well.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: Now. All right, so for this turn, this one leaps off and swoops down here to where Percy is while both of its riders leap off to the side. One that leaps off and rushes over to Scanlan on the ground, and this other one that gets right up next to Percy. This one goes flying forward and lands in the center to about there. Two of its riders leap off. This one stays up in the air over this way in a flanking position– or in a visual perspective with two of its riders on its back. Put them there.

LIAM: For clarification, does this count as turns, or are they, since they're coming late to the party, or this is just them in position?

MATT: This is them now entering the fray.

LIAM: Are they into the initiative order, just gameplay talk?

MATT: Yeah. Well, this is the initiative I rolled for them after being called by the guy who was already shouting out into the air.

LAURA: Oh, right, right, right.

MATT: You didn't see them before, given your perspective. These guys leap off over here– over there. Okay. So we have, first the wyvern that swooped down on you, Percy, is going to go ahead and make an attack with its bite and an attack with its stinger as a multiattack. So that first strike, that is going to be a– The bite, 13?

TALIESIN: That does not hit.

MATT: The stinger, however, is a 19.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my Amulet of the Shield and up my AC for that attack to 23, so.

MATT: Yeah. So that will miss. So that uses the Amulet. Good to know. So the stinger goes to strike you after the bite misses, and as you grasp your chest, you can see now an arcane barrier shines in front of you and completely ricochets the stinger out into the air to the side as it reacts angrily. The other giant humanoid lizard creature that's coming towards you with a giant heavy club is going to attempt to slam you with it.

LAURA: There's so many things!

MATT: Twice. Well, it's going to attack you with its club, that's going to be a 17.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: And then it's going to try and slam you with a spike shield. That is 15.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: So that guy starts swinging at you loosely.

TALIESIN: I'm sword out. Yeah.

MATT: All right. Attacking you, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh. Shit.

MATT: The one that's on the ground there. All right. So it has two attacks against you with advantage.

SAM: With advantage?

MATT: Because you're prone. You're on the ground. That'll be a 24 to hit.

SAM: Yeah, yeah, okay.

MATT: And the spike shield is going to be a 24 again, actually.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: So as you're on the ground, it slams you with a shield for 12 points of bludgeoning damage.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: Why didn't I bring Trinket?

SAM: I know! What's wrong with you?

MATT: The shield slams you for eight points of piercing damage. So a total of 20 points of damage as (whack) slams you into the ground twice.

LAURA: I thought this was a stealthing mission!

MATT: It was until he rolled a 15 stealth.

SAM: Blame me, blame me.

MATT: Those wyverns are too far away for combat. The other guys are just assisting the scenario here.

LIAM: Percy shot at them.

MATT: Okay. There's one fellow over here that is a bit far away who steps off. Instead of holding the same clubs and shields or other various hack weapons, he's carrying a gnarled staff.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: Steps forward and sees the weapon that you fired twice and had been fixing, this large metallic dangerous entity, looks forward and begins hissing under his breath (hissing gibberish).

SAM: Do I see this?

MATT: You do.

SAM: I'm going to release my–

MATT: Though you are being slammed on the ground. I'd say make a perception check, actually, to see if you see this.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Because you are currently–

SAM: 19!

MATT: Yes, actually, I will say you do see this.

SAM: I will release my Counterspell.

MATT: Okay!

SAM: I assume he's casting something.

MATT: He is, actually–

TRAVIS: Or has a terrible cold.

SAM: And I will– I will sing at him, (singing) And you still haven't hit what you're aiming for!

MATT: That's a second-level spell, it is dispelled immediately. As he'd attempted to Heat Metal on your weapon, you can see as the metal begins to glow for a moment and you could feel the heat welling in your hand, all of a sudden the spell (crack) is shattered, like the sound of thin glass in the distance as Scanlan shouts to intercept its arcane ability. That is going to end their opening turn. That brings us down to the initiative order. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh, I think Grog was before me.

MATT: Oh, right, Grog, you're holding your action first.

TRAVIS: Right. Can I barrel down through the alley now that someone's on the ground, and race towards the one that's nearest Percy?

MATT: I'll say sure. Usually, going forward, if you hold your action, that's just your action, not your movement, you still move to the situation, but I'll let it stand for this, it's fine.

TRAVIS: I'll remember that going forward.

MATT: Yeah. So you're going to tear down to this guy there?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I would like– and I would like to swing twice with Craven.

MATT: Go for it. Still maintaining your bonuses from last game, by the way. You haven't taken a short rest yet.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

TRAVIS: Yes indeed.

LAURA: He's so strong from the last game.

TRAVIS: Plus– That's 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TRAVIS: And a 14 on the second one.

MATT: 14 does not hit. This is the Great Weapon Master?

TRAVIS: No, these are regular attacks.

LAURA: You didn't rage yet?

MATT: Did you rage?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Oh! No, I did not.

MATT: Do you want to rage as part of your bonus action to this?

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: Okay. Figures. All right, so as your bonus action you go into a rage before you strike. Go for it.

TRAVIS: 12– 22? Oh, wait. Yep, 22.

MATT: 22 damage. All right. The second strike missed.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right. 22, that's it.

MATT: 22. So you rush forward, slam the sword into the side of the lizard creature. It puts its shield up and it manages to block most of the blow, but it still slides off and slams into part of its neck area. It shoves the blade out. However, it fails its save.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Take a strength point off of it and add that to what you have now. What's your strength currently?

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: So it goes up another plus one to attack and damage. If it became 22, it does.

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: All right. Grog, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Is there anywhere I can stand that I get a good cone shape? Or am I all blocked in?

MATT: You can try to move through. You might get an attack of opportunity from the guy that's attacking Grog.

LAURA: Okay, how high is the roof next to me?

MATT: It's about 16, 20 feet.

LAURA: Could I acrobatics that shit up?

MATT: You could try to. Go for it.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Parkour!

LAURA: Hold on. Oh! 31?

MATT: With that, you look over and see the rooftop up there. You leap off each side, Ninja Gaiden-style. Hop onto the rooftop with a solid view of the entire battlefield before you, including the one flying creature up there.

LAURA: Oh, okay. Then I'm going to Hunter's Mark the magic user.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And I'm going to Conjure Barrage in a cone to get as many of those fucks as I can.

MATT: Okay, so it's a 60-foot cone. Right there?

LAURA: Yeah, sure. Sorry, Scanlan.

MATT: You will hit Scanlan, as well.

SAM: Oh, balls! I'm a little man!

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll for that.

LAURA: 3d8.

MATT: Yeah, roll 3d8 damage.

SAM: 3d8 damage?

MATT: Yeah!

LAURA: It's not that much. 16, and then an extra d6 on that guy. An extra six.

MATT: Okay, so does he make his save? He does not.

SAM: Do I have to make a save?

MATT: Yes, you do.

SAM: What kind of save?

MATT: This would be a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: And I'm on the ground. That's a nine.

MATT: You take 16 points of damage from that. That's a fail, and a success. So 16. The wyvern makes that, so half that for eight. He fails. All right, cool. Got it. So as you go forward, leaping up on top, you mark the one guy, turn around, and release a torrent of arrows that sprays into the center of this open pathway of the city. I believe that ends your turn.

LAURA: Yes, it does.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, me?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Balls. Shit. I'm on the ground. If I stand up, that's my action?

MATT: It's half your movement.

SAM: That's half my movement. Okay, I'll stand up. He doesn't get to hit me, right?

MATT: Not unless you move away from him.

SAM: Okay. Which riders are still on their beasts?

MATT: These two are the only two that are still on their beasts.

SAM: I will ignore the guy next to me and I will Hand Cone it up, and I will– he's got two riders?

MATT: Yeah, they have these ramshackle– you can see now with a closer look, these leather kind of saddles? But they're mostly thrown leathers that are strapped to its back, and there's two of them holding onto these knobs in front to stay on.

SAM: Two riders?!

LAURA: Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: I guess I'll Dominate one of them. The main guy.

LAURA: Can you Dominate the beast?

SAM: He's not a person.

MATT: There's Dominate Person and Dominate Monster. They're two different things.

SAM: I'm going to dominate the guy in front.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Maverick, not Hollywood.

TRAVIS: It's Maverick and Goose!

SAM: Well, at the end, it was Hollywood.

TRAVIS: No, it was Merlin.

SAM: Merlin?!

TRAVIS: Yeah. Tim Robbins.

SAM: Merlin was the teacher, the guy who spun out. Hollywood was the guy who was his–

TRAVIS: You don't want to do this with me.

TALIESIN: This is the first conversation I've ever been in in this group where I feel young.

MATT: The rider's screeching down while it's holding on, and all of a sudden it shakes its head for a minute and looks down at you, eyes connected, and you know that this entity is waiting for its command.

SAM: Can I only give it one command per turn?

MATT: You can give it a basic command and it will follow it through, unless you wanted to directly control it.

SAM: Well, I've got two things to do. He's got to get rid of that fucker on his back, and also other things. Let's go for the big kahuna. I command him to ride his beast to attack the one below him. The wyvern below him.

MATT: Okay. All right, good to know. And do you want to stay where you are? Do you want to move?

SAM: No, I don't want to move because he'll hit me. That would be bad. Who hasn't gone? You haven't gone.

TALIESIN: Vax hasn't gone–

SAM: Vax hasn't gone? Oh my god.

LAURA: No. because he rolled a one, remember?

LIAM: Yup!

SAM: Okay. I will inspire Vax with my inspiration. And I will say: This is ground control to Major Vax, you've really made the blade. And the papers want to know whose blood you spilled!

MATT: (laughs) All right, take your d10 inspiration die.

LIAM: d10. Yes.

SAM: Rest in peace.

MATT: All right. That's Scanlan's turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: So I'm having trouble seeing the battle map. Grog is right against a wyvern, right?

MATT: Grog is against a lizard-like creature–

LIAM: Oh, so not against a wyvern?

MATT: No. That's a little bit away. But Percy is next to it.

LIAM: Oh, so Percy is right there?

MATT: Correct, yes.

LIAM: And Scanlan's next to the magic user, right?

MATT: The magic user's over here, that's been Hunter's Marked.

LIAM: Scanlan's up against a dude, right? All right, so what I want to do is slink up behind Percy, reach over– oh, no, I want to click my Boots of Haste, is what I want to do.

MATT: Did you use them during the battle against the looters?

LIAM: I don't think so.

TRAVIS: I don't remember him doing it.

LIAM: No, I didn't. No I didn't, I definitely didn't, because I remember kicking myself for– I definitely didn't. Okay so, click, everybody starts moving slower around me. I want to– so Percy's against the wyvern, I want to reach over Percy's shoulder and stab the wyvern, and then I want to throw another dagger at the dude standing next to Scanlan.

MATT: On this side there, you mean?

LIAM: Yeah. Well, I can't tell, I can't see shit– is that over Percy's shoulder?

MATT: Because right now you're being blocked, you can't quite get to the wyvern unless you move around the building that you left.

LIAM: But I can go around it, yes, let's do that. I'm going to stab the wyvern in the butt, and then I'm going to throw a dagger from my other hand at the guy standing next to Scanlan– I've got a question for you. Because both of them have somebody who's running interference, do I get sneak attack damage on both?

MATT: You only get one sneak attack damage per turn.

LIAM: Just per turn?

MATT: Once per turn.

LIAM: All right. So I'm going to use sneak attack damage on the wyvern if I get it.

MATT: Go for it! So first strike against it, as you (whoosh) whip around the side of the building, blades out–

LIAM: 25!

MATT: That hits!

LIAM: And then for the dude by Scanlan gets a– word, 19.

MATT: Yep. If you have both blades out, you get a third attack too, don't forget.

LIAM: I do. Oh– yes. So the third stab will go back at the wyvern.

MATT: Okay! So the sneak attack against the wyvern, first strike.

LIAM: Yeah, and the last one was a 24 total, so that hits as well. Okay! So that's two, one, yes. That's 14, 17, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29 into the wyvern.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And then the jerk over by Scanlan gets seven.

SAM: Yes!

LIAM: And then the wyvern takes another, the Keen Dagger, takes another nine.

MATT: All righty. So, as you rush around, you stab the wyvern on the back of its haunches and you see it shrieks in pain (screeches), looks over its shoulder and starts biting its tail, its stinger swinging about, but you avoid it, fling the other dagger to the side and then jam the other side of its haunches with your other hand. It's definitely aware of your presence now.

LIAM: Did I use up all my movement?

MATT: Nope!

LIAM: Knowing that it can swat at me, I'm going to try to go right back around where I came from.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I'm wearing the Cloak of Displacement.

MATT: Okay. It's going to swing at you with disadvantage.

SAM: Just call it cloak number seven.

MATT: That's a two on the first roll, so yeah. That misses you. (whoosh) Its stinger swings out towards you and you duck underneath, it slams to the side of the building, breaking part of the wood, you can see splinters fly out to the middle of the road. That ends your turn?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. How far away am I from this guy, like– roughly how many feet?

MATT: Roughly–

MARISHA: The guy who's in the air, flying.

MATT: I'd say about 60, 65 feet.

MARISHA: Beautiful. I want to move up and around– here-ish.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Sorry, I've got this thing in the way. Back a little bit– scoot back. Is that still in your path?

SAM: No, he's my guy.

MARISHA: He's your–? Oh. Well, I'm not going to fuck with him. I'm going to– you Dominated the guy?

SAM: I Dominated the guy.

MARISHA: Should I turn the wyvern into something else?

SAM: I don't know. I don't know.

MARISHA: Should I Polymorph him? Yeah, I guess he's Dom– you are Dominating that guy. Is there anything else that's flying? He's the only one that's up in the air left, right?

MATT: Yeah, all the other wyverns have landed and let their riders off on the sides.

MARISHA: So you commanded him to attack the one below you, right? I'm going to turn that wyvern into a– chicken!

MATT: This one?

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: Okay. What's the save on that?

MARISHA: Poof! He has to make a wisdom save.

MATT: That is a seven!

MARISHA: Fail!

MATT: And with that– (laughs) The wyvern– (laughs) Twice now–

MARISHA: (laughs) This is my favourite game, you guys!

MATT: The bane of wyverns everyone– (swoop, chicken noise). As both the riders tumble off, slamming into the ground (sound of impact). That would be– Okay, ten points of damage to the wyvern, which kills the chicken form entirely. It turns back to a wyvern on the ground, taking the excess three damage.

LAURA: Yeah– (laughs) Keyleth.

MARISHA: Fuck.

LAURA: Shit! (laughs)

MATT: What?

SAM: Do I keep hold of my guy?

MATT: The riders fall also, they both take an additional 14 points of damage to each of them from the fall.

MARISHA: They all took damage– and they're on the ground now.

MATT: Let's see if it takes damage and makes a new saving throw against the spell. Does not make it, so it is still Dominated.

SAM: Oh. Okay. Thank God.

MARISHA: I didn't fuck it up this time.

MATT: But they are all– all three of them are considered prone for now. They are all knocked prone.

MARISHA: Cool. That's my turn.

MATT: All right, ends Keyleth's turn. At the top, Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay. Where am I, I can't see–

MATT: You're right here, you're blocked in between the two buildings, the mouth of the alleyway, with a wyvern and lizard creature right there, standing before you.

TALIESIN: Okay, I have no advantage on any of these bastards at the moment if I were to attack. Okay, that's fine. And how would you describe– these are like scaly people?

MATT: This up close and personal, they are humanoid in build, they have, you know, stand up upright, they have long tails, ridges across the head, they're bigger than an actual human and they're very muscular, and the more you look at it, you can see that their clothing, they have tattered cloth and leathers that have been haphazardly dyed in blood and gore to all be a very, very deep red color. And they're pretty uniform across what they are wearing.

LAURA: They're an army.

SAM: Team colors.

TALIESIN: I think you've got that one guy covered at the moment, so I'll concentrate on the–hmm. Tough call, tough call. You know what, I'll have a little fun. I'm going to pull my sword and I'm going to take a slash at the guy who's involved with–

MATT: All right, go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: Oh shit, I forgot to use my bonus action. Can I pop in a quick bonus before that?

MATT: For what?

TALIESIN: Hex him.

MATT: You've already hexed today. You used it in the battle versus the looters.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's–

SAM: Same day.

TALIESIN: That's right. Still the same hour. It can only do it once a day, right? That's all right. That's fine, I can just do a little thing. So, just add to this, would he be described in anywhere on his little D&D card as something with a dragon keyword?

MATT: Nope!

TALIESIN: So I'm just going to do normal damage to him?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Okay. So–

MATT: Wyverns, however–

TALIESIN: All right, just checking. I'm going to do nine points of damage, slashing damage, to him.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to turn to the wyvern, and take two slashes at the wyvern.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: First is– ew. 14?

MATT: 14 hits.

TALIESIN: Wow.

MATT: They're sacks of hit points, but they don't have lot of armor to them.

TALIESIN: That's 19 plus– 26 points of damage.

MATT: Nice!

TALIESIN: And second shot– 13, 24, yeah, that hits. Ten, 17, 18, 19, 26 points of damage.

MATT: 26 twice in a row. So with this you pull the sword out, as soon as you see it in the proximity of the wyvern, the blade itself almost seems to shimmer with this gleam of green on it, like the metal almost seems to bend and wave with your movements. And as you turn back around to slash at the wyvern, the blade cuts through it like butter, there's not even resistance, it goes right through its flesh. With each slash of the longsword, you can see large chunks of its muscle coming visible as parts of its body are now being pulled from the muscle and sinew. It shrieks in pain, you can see it angrily now starting to get ready to rake at you pretty heavily. That end your turn?

TALIESIN: That's my turn.

MATT: All righty. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm going to continue where I started on, shitfucker out in front of me.

MATT: Okay! (laughs)

TRAVIS: But I would like to go Great Weapon Master and I would like to use Reckless Attack.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Wow, wow. Wow.

SAM: Reckless.

MATT: Roll your first attack against him.

TRAVIS: That's a 31.

MATT: Roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: 25?

MATT: 25? He fails his save, so you get another plus one to your strength, and that swing just cleaves it in two. It goes (whoosh) right through its midsection, it (gurgles). It tumbles off, falling to the ground.

LAURA: Oh my god. Grog.

LIAM: Grog is full juicing.

TRAVIS: I told you he'd open up to me!

(laughter)

MATT: You can move in now with your movement and do your next attack, if you'd like.

TRAVIS: I'll go ahead and take care of that wyvern that's next to me.

MATT: Go for it, all right, so now you get your next attack.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: Does his strength go up to 100 eventually?

MATT: It's double your first dice roll–

TRAVIS: 19– oh, so the 2d6 was nine, plus five is–

MATT: So 18.

TRAVIS: Plus 11.

MATT: So 29, plus two additional die rolls.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Okay. So we're at–

MATT, TRAVIS AND MARISHA: 39.

MATT: And then one more? Because you roll 2d– it's twice, because of Brutal Critical.

LIAM: Jeez, you got like Tetsuo arm, it's like five times bigger than it should be.

TRAVIS: Four. Four for those two, do I plus five to that as well for the–

MATT: Well, plus ten for your– you already added that for your–

TRAVIS: Yes, 2d6 plus five on each one and the–

MATT: No, it's just the additional 2d6 each time.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So yeah, with that you turn around after hacking its friend, leaping forward (grunts), foam at the corner of your mouth, your eyes bloodshot and angry. You take the blade and sweep it down, and it plunges itself right into the wound that Percy had left open with his sword swing, finding no resistance before it comes all the way to the hilt in the body of the wyvern, which shrieks for a moment (screeches) before its breath stops and its body falls limp.

SAM: Yeah, one down!

MATT: Does make its save, though.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, and on Great Weapon Master on a crit or killing an extra hit, but I guess I–?

MATT: As a bonus action! For the record, going forward, if you're frenzied raging it doesn't really give you a benefit, but if you're not, it does help. So in theory, you could if you wanted to try and chuck it.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Just throw it? Don't throw it?

MATT: What are you going to do, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm good, I'm good.

MATT: Ends Grog's turn. All right. Now these guys both get up, currently no longer on the wyvern. Did you want to give it another kind of a thought, if you see it land?

SAM: Get on the wyvern and kill the other one.

MATT: Okay. This guy gets up on the wyvern, grabs its reins, pulls it forward, and jams it with its spear as it leads it inward. It runs forward and is going to take a swing– It's going to take a swing with its stinger at the one behind it. It's confused and figuring out what's– why is it doing this, it's more of like– this might work once. That is going to be a– 17, it hits! That's going to be 11 points of damage, does it make its save? It does not make its save, that's an additional 24 points of poison damage on that one. So that's 35 points of damage, one wyvern to another. (laughs) As this guy immediately whips around angrily.

SAM: You have pleased me.

(laughter)

MATT: Both of these guys go charging forward here.

LAURA: Oh no, Scanlan!

MATT: It's going to pull up its javelin and chuck it at you, Vex.

LAURA: Me?

MATT: Yeah. That is going to miss you at a 12. It (swoosh) throws, the javelin arcs past you. This one over here is going to come forward and it's going to take a javelin as well out and chuck it right at you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Heh, you're dead.

MATT: That is a 20 to hit.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: You take ten points of piercing damage, reduced to five, as you basically (impact)–

TRAVIS: (snapping noise)

MATT: (laughs) Snap it off and grin in its face.

TRAVIS: Let me return that favor in a second.

LIAM: Grog is on god mode.

MARISHA: (laughs) Save game plus.

MATT: (laughs) –now it sees the danger that you're in, looks at you, sees you hack through the center of one of the wyverns, intensely looks at you and begins casting another spell.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MATT: Like it is wont to do.

MARISHA: Is it?

TRAVIS: Come on, smart Grog.

MATT: All right. So, Craven Edge, as you're holding it, all of a sudden the handle becomes white hot and you immediately take six points of fire damage just holding it.

SAM: Grip it harder! (groan)

MATT: Fire's biting through. Three attacks against you, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, God.

MATT: Currently two of which are flanking you, so they're going to have advantage on the attacks. So that's a natural 20 on one of them. This guy is– 18. That hits. And then this guy here without the advantage– still hits with a 17.

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words on the last guy.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'm going to just– (plays flute badly) to distract him.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10.

SAM: d10. Which one's ten, I never remember. This one. Nine!

MATT: Okay! So he rolled a 17 plus seven, that would've been a 24, that brings him to 15, which I believe misses you. So the last strike, as he swings towards you, the shrilling tones, it causes him to reach up and grab one of his lizard-like ear holes and (snarling) the swing goes wildly over your head. However, as you duck down, you look up as you see the shadow come down of two large clubs that (boom boom) over the head of your tiny gnomish form. That's going to be– (groans)

SAM: Oh, that's not a good sound.

MATT: Oh, and they also get bites after this, too. All right, so you take 12, which would double to 24– Oh, no, sorry, 12– 20 points of bludgeoning damage from one. You take 12 points of damage from the other. So 32 points of damage total. And they're both going to attempt to bite you as well, with advantage.

SAM: A bite with advantage!

MATT: That is a 20 on the first one.

SAM: That's the damage it does?

MATT: That's to hit. And that one's going to – double 19, so they both hit. So you take another 20 points of damage total of piercing damage as they both start tearing into your body.

LAURA: 52 points of damage just then?

SAM: (rasping breath)

LAURA: No, Scanlan!

MARISHA: No, you're still up, you're still up! I thought you said you had 55!

SAM: I did.

LAURA: 52!

MARISHA: It was 52 total.

LAURA: You have three points left.

SAM: Ah! That was close, guys. I saw my mother! Then I saw myself at math class, failing.

MATT: I need you to make a bunch of concentration checks here.

SAM: Oh yeah. Okay.

MATT: To maintain control over it, yeah.

SAM: Advantage on concentration checks.

MATT: Yeah, so just roll two at a time.

SAM: Two whats?

MATT: Two d20s.

SAM: Well, I only have one d20.

MATT: Adding your constitution modifier to it.

SAM: How many– oh, for each thing that– constitution modifier. Holy God. Okay. I'm counting both of those, the first one's only 12.

MATT: 12, that'll work, because none of them– only one of them did 20 damage and it's minimum of ten, so as long as you get above a ten with each one, you're fine.

SAM: Okay. So I got to do two more?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah, that's 16 plus two.

MATT: Okay. Another one.

SAM: 17 plus two.

MATT: Another one.

SAM: Two plus two.

MATT: You have advantage on these.

SAM: Seven plus two. Nine.

MATT: Nine. Nope.

SAM: No good. No bueno.

MATT: With that, you lose your concentration on the Domination spell. As that fades–

LAURA: That's okay. The other wyvern is still mad at the first one, so that's good.

MATT: So that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh man. Okay.

MATT: You see Scanlan being tossed around on the ground, and then you see streaks of blood in the air as one of them tears a big chunk out of his shoulder.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: He looks up at you briefly, his eyes half-open.

LAURA: Scanlan! I got you!

SAM: No, no, I know you did. You shot me on the last turn, I remember. Yeah, you got me good! You got me good!

LAURA: I shoot from my Bow of the Sky Sentinel.

MATT: Sky Sentinel, I believe, did you use that last battle?

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: I'm pretty sure you did.

LAURA: I did, but I only used my burning thingy once, so I can do that. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. So I'm going to move my Hunter's Mark to one of the guys around Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. Do you want to say the most wounded of them?

LAURA: Yeah, sure.

MATT: That would be–

LAURA: Or the least wounded of them, actually.

MATT: The least wounded would be this one.

LAURA: Okay. And then I'm going to shoot– I'm going to shoot arrows.

MATT: All right!

LAURA: All right. I'm going to shoot through my Blazing Bowstring on that guy and the guy in front of him.

MATT: Okay. Right there and there?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: So Blazing Bowstring, and then regular. Go for it.

LAURA: Okay. So I forget how to do that. I roll to attack. Why is this so hard?! Okay, 18!

MATT: 18 hits.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to roll damage on that one, which is ten plus my normal eight. 12, 14 plus six for Hunter's Mark. 20 plus six for sneak attack, bitch!

LIAM: Did you just call the DM a bitch?

LAURA: No, I was calling that guy a bitch.

SAM: Matt does not deserve that kind of language.

LAURA: 6d6. So that's 25 damage against the first guy.

MATT: 25 damage? That's just enough. Say goodbye to him. That sneak attack was just what you needed, that was the last bit of damage.

LAURA: Yay! Okay, so the second guy is another 18.

MATT: Another 18? That hits.

LAURA: Actually no, that's a 20-whatever. Yeah. Okay. 14, 15, 16. Do I get sneak attack on him, too?

MATT: Can only sneak attack once per turn.

LAURA: Dang it. So 16 damage against that guy.

MATT: 16 damage, okay. So this arrow– The first one hits it in the neck and he gurgles and falls to the ground and bleeds out on the floor next to Scanlan. The other one, the arrow strikes it in the middle of its shoulderblades and it arcs up in pain, but it's still standing. Though it's having to really move around with much pain in its face. That end your turn? You going to stay up there?

LAURA: I'm going to– yeah.

MATT: Staying up on the rooftop, sniping down. Good call. That brings us to Scanlan!

SAM: It's my turn?!

LAURA: Take a potion! Heal yourself!

SAM: Oh yeah! If I had a potion, that would be great! I will do Thunderwave– Thunderwave at third level.

MATT: Thunderwave at third level, all righty.

LIAM: Dissention in the ranks.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, so that is 4d8 thunder damage to all the ones on a failed save. So, their constitution saves here. Is this through a hand cone?

SAM: Sure, man.

MATT: Figured– both fail!

SAM: What is it, 4d8?

MATT: It's 4d8 thunder damage. They are pushed ten feet away from you.

SAM: Did they all fail? Did they both fail?

MATT: Yes. This pushed this way. This pushed that way.

SAM: Ten. 17!

MATT: 17 points of damage to each. Okay! They're blasted backward, barely catching themselves on their feet. And from the impact, you can see what little bit of red-colored leather armor they have on is tattered and destroyed. You can see blood pouring out of the sides of their earholes where the thunderous blast possibly burst their eardrums. And they're both like, shaking their head. All right.

SAM: Bonus action, I will Healing Word myself–

MATT: (laughing) Okay.

SAM: I can do that at higher levels? Yes?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: I'll do it at a level four.

MATT: (laughing) Okay.

SAM: And I will sing to myself; sadly, pathetically, (breathy) I get knocked down, but I get up again. Ain't never going to keep me down.

(laughter)

MATT: All right! So that is 4d4 plus five healing to yourself.

SAM: Okay, 4d4 plus five– That's 14 plus five.19.

MATT: 19. So you heal yourself 19 hit points. That ends your turn. Up next, Vax.

LIAM: I'm going to scramble up to the top of the building that I'm right next to.

MATT: Acrobatics check.

LIAM: Sure. No problem. Yeah, way high. 20– 33.

MATT: Yeah. You parkour up the side, land on top of the rooftop. Leap across and you're now at the edge.

LIAM: Is that Percy right there?

MATT: That's Percy right there.

LIAM: Okay. Oh, who's right directly in a row, away from me? Yeah, I can't tell. It's a bad guy?

MATT: It's a bad guy, bad guy. Bad guy, bad guy, bad guy.

LIAM: I want to run, actually, and I want to jump off and land next to Percy. Yeah. I want to run straight by and I want to stab the dude. I'm going to run forward, yeah. Stab that guy.

(laughter)

LIAM: Yeah, exactly. That is 20.

MATT: That hits, roll damage.

SAM: Run, run, run. Stab. Run, run, run. Stab. Those are the two buttons on the Vax video game.

(laughter)

SAM: Run and stab.

LIAM: Nine.

MATT: Nine damage?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: (grunt) You shank him in the side and he tumbles over.

(cheering)

LIAM: Run towards Scanlan, and I want to grapple him. Hopefully he just takes it. No, not that far. One square back. Right there! Grab him. And I'm using my bonus action to dash and then drag him backward, behind Grog.

MATT: It's an action to grapple someone who would be against it, are you letting him grapple you?

SAM: Oh, hell yes.

MATT: I'll say for the sake of the–

LIAM: Right, two actions and a bonus action, mix them around, Matt!

MATT: Yeah, it's fine, because he wants to. You rush forward, you grab him, and you're dragging him back this way?

LIAM: And then back– yeah, right behind Grog, and I drag him behind Vex and Grog, back by Keyleth. (airplane noise)

MATT: Okay. I'll say that's about as far as you get because you have a bit of movement taken away, even though you are hasted, because he's not too heavy, but he's still a gnome.

LIAM: Right. Dash– hasted, I can go very very far.

SAM: Your hands are so rough and masculine.

LIAM: I spank him on the ass and say, you're welcome, shorty.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to push my way through the crowd a little bit. Can I have that laser pointer?

LIAM: Yes, you may.

MARISHA: Thank you. Okay. (grandiose voice) And now with all of the rage, thinking about all–

SAM: “I turn someone into a chicken.”

MARISHA: I– boof! Boof! Boof! I want some feather-down pillows for our loft. I channel all of my Fire Ashari ancestors. And I cast my 7th-level Firestorm!

SAM: Oh god, we're all going to die.

MARISHA: So as I concentrate, enraged at the sight of dragons, I have ten–

SAM: (whispers) Did you get me away from– because I–

MARISHA: Yes, you're fine. You're fine. No, he didn't get you away because he knew this was happening, it just happened to work out. So ten ten-foot cubes– They all have to be connected. Exactly, I'm going to start here and I'll work my way over. They're ten-foot– remember, they're ten-foot. But they're attached. So they're bigger than that.

MATT: Three– well, they're ten foot by ten foot, which is about this size.

MARISHA: Okay, okay.

MATT: Right, so it's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.

MARISHA: Oh, okay, yeah, get the wyvern.

MATT: You can get all of them there.

LAURA: Oh my god, that guy is going to be so–

LIAM: Grog's going to bite his head off.

MATT: What's the DC on this?

MARISHA: They have to make a dex saving throw or they take–

MATT: Right, right, but what's your DC on it?

MARISHA: Oh, my spell DC? 19.

MATT: Fail, fail, fail, they're not very dextrous. Fail, fail, fail– Fail! They all fail.

(cheering)

MATT: So that's 7d10 fire damage to each of them.

SAM: Why don't you use that all the time!?

MARISHA: I just got it! I just got it when I leveled.

LIAM: You've got to be careful with friendly fire, and we're all out of the way.

MARISHA: So a giant, fiery chasm splits open.

MATT: The ground bursts open, rocks being torn asunder as giant columns of flame– boof, boof, boof, boof, boof– out of the ground, completely engulfing each one of them in this sudden conflagration of red and orange and yellow flames and molten magma.

MARISHA: 24. 24, that was four– 24, that's good, so 27, 36, 30– 42 points of fire damage.

(clapping)

LIAM: Phew. Gingers, man. Gingers.

MARISHA: My hands light up.

MATT: Each one of the lizardfolk-type creatures in the flames, you see them shriek for a second before their forms are turned to ash in these blasts of fire, each sub-woofer-like, guttural impact as the ground cracks open like (explosion noise) scatter amongst–

MARISHA: So they explode? Popcorn?

MATT: Yeah, each one of the wyverns themselves, you can see the flames emerge around them, and as it recedes they have burn scars and their flesh is cracked and peeled against the fire wounds that now tear across the front of their body. They're all looking fairly hurt by that.

MARISHA: And then, I take a bow.

(laughter)

MARISHA: And I'm– exhausted a little bit, little single tear as I think of my ancestors– And that's it.

MATT: All right, end of your turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to start walking towards that wyvern at the bottom there– Yeah, that way, I'm not going to get quite close enough to get into the reach of that jerk over there–

MATT: So you can go here.

TALIESIN: Yeah. While I'm walking by him, though, I'm going to nail– I don't even know if I'm really going to– going to shoot him three times while I'm walking by, because that's funny. With Sharpshooter.

MATT: Okay. So first shot against them?

TALIESIN: It would be seven, 19.

MATT: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on him.

TALIESIN: That's– 1d10, what did I do with my 1d10s, because I wasn't thinking– here we go. That's 26 points of damage.

MATT: (explosion noise) You take his head right off as you walk by, without even looking. (explosion noise, pained squawk) And you can see the lower jaw gets blown off and it falls to the back on the ground.

TALIESIN: Since I've got two more shots, I'm going to start shooting at that one dragon– that wyvern, as I'm–

MATT: Right there? Go for it. Two shots on the wyvern.

TALIESIN: Sharpshooter again.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Pew!

TALIESIN: That's a nine, yay! So that's 16?

MATT: 16 hits.

TALIESIN: And I'll roll the second one, just to have it. That's nine. Nah, nine'll miss. Thankfully will not– that's great. 26 points of damage.

MATT: All righty. This one (explosion noise) the bullet hits inside of its body, you can see a little (splurting noise) of blood squirt out–

TALIESIN: And I'll get as close as I can get to him in this round, also, I'm going to spend my movement walking straight towards him.

MATT: (heavy walking noises) That's the rest of it there. Okay. That's your turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Oh! Yeah! I leave one of those to you guys, and I run at the two wyverns on the left.

MATT: Getting in the middle of the fray? Against them both?

TRAVIS: Yeah, against them both!

MATT: There you go! Grog charges, and they're both– There you go!

TRAVIS: Here's hoping these puppies go– That's 24?

MATT: 24 on the more wounded one?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right, that hits him.

TRAVIS: Can I swing at the other guy?

MATT: If you want to.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's divvy it up, I don't want to give anybody too much love. Five, four, 26?

MATT: Hits, so roll damage on each.

TRAVIS: 11, 22, 32?

MATT: They're both Great Weapon Master? Okay, 32 damage?

TRAVIS: 32 on the first.

MATT: First one, you carve through him with the blade (whump).

LAURA: Nice.

MATT: Makes his save.

TRAVIS: Five, ten, 21, 31, 31.

MATT: 31 damage? Okay. This one you (whoosh) streak across with Craven Edge. Makes its save. You leave a large wound across the front of its jaw and it (choking noise). However, you did kill one, so you do get to use your bonus action for an attack because of your Great Weapon Master feat.

TRAVIS: Do I have to roll for the hit?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: That's 31?

MATT: With the minus five?

TRAVIS: Sorry! No, no, never mind, sorry, what's 31 minus five?

LIAM and TALIESIN: 26.

MATT: Hits, yeah, you're good.

TRAVIS: Okay. Three, seven, 12, 30. Oh, 22, 32.

LIAM: He's covered in ichor.

MATT: 32. This time (whoosh) you swipe through the second time with the blade, this time carving off part of its wing, and you see that one of the wings is half-curled and keeping up to the side, it's hobbling around its legs, looking like it's on death's door, but still keeping itself. All right, is that the end of your turn?

TRAVIS: That's it.

MATT: All right, (wyvern noise) in there, and this one stays there and is going to unleash upon you, Grog. It's going to bite and tail attack against each of you with the stinger against you, Grog. That is a 21 to hit?

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And natural 20 on the stinger, okay.

TRAVIS: Well, I have resistance against poison, so that helps.

MATT: That does help, actually, so it'll just do regular poison damage against you. So you take 11 points of piercing damage, reduced to six from the bite. And the stinger deals– That's 12 points of piercing damage, reduced to six as well.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: The stinger, however, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: All right. Ugh, 12.

MATT: That's a failure. Actually, it would have been an additional 12, because it was a critical hit on the pierce, so you take 12– so a total of 18 damage so far, and then, as part of the poison, you take 48 points of poison damage. Because you have resistance, that is reduced to 24.

SAM: Hey! That's nice!

MATT: All right, you have poison resistance from the belt, right? Yes. All right, so there you go. The other one coming up against you, Percy, strikes with its bite. That is going to be a 20– 16?

TALIESIN: 16 misses.

MATT: 16 misses. That is going to be a 22 for the stinger.

TALIESIN: Stinger hits.

MATT: Okay, stinger hits you for six plus four, ten points of piercing damage. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

TALIESIN: Constitution saving throw. 20.

MATT: 20, you succeed. No poison.

TALIESIN: So I took ten points of–?

MATT: Piercing damage. Correct. All right, it's looking rough on both their ends. They're just fighting to the end at this point. All right, that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on the one fighting–

MATT: Moving it over?

LAURA: Yeah. Percy.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And I'm going to first attack the one fighting Grog.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 16?

MATT: 16– does hit, yeah.

LAURA: Yes! Okay.

MATT: Don't have a whole lot of armor. They just got a lot of hit points.

LAURA: 17 plus sneak attack– 18.

MATT: 18. So Grog, as you're thrashing about with the blade at this creature, eager to get that final hit, you reach back with Craven Edge before an arrow (impact) into its face and it (burble, thump) collapses to the ground.

TRAVIS: Aw!

(laughter)

LAURA: And I shift my attention over to the one fighting Percy!

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And that is 30, no, 28?

MATT: 28 hits, go ahead and roll damage with the extra d6 for Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Nine, ten, 11– Where's my dex? 17.

MATT: Gotcha. 17 points of damage. Second you (whoosh) pull out the second arrow, (whoosh) release it and it strikes the side of its body, and (pained squawk) it still seems to be standing. It hurt it, but didn't leave it in any dire straits yet. That ends your turn, are you staying where you are?

LAURA: I'm staying where I am!

MATT: Okay, Scanlan, you're up.

LAURA: Actually, I'm going to jump off the roof and rush over to Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. So leaping off, make an acrobatics check.

LAURA: 24?

MATT: 24– Scanlan, at the start of your turn, as you're getting ready, all of a sudden (impact) in front of you, spooking you momentarily, you see Vex lands on her feet and looks down at you with a look of concern and wanting to make sure you're okay.

SAM: Oh, hi, thanks for checking on me. Could you move for a second? I'm going to kill this thing.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, so I'll– I can't do much, because I'm far away and I don't want to kill Percy–

TALIESIN: It's not going to live through me anyway.

SAM: That's true. I will Wand of Magic Missiles him.

MATT: Okay, using how many–

SAM: I'll use six of my seven.

MATT: Oof! All righty. So go ahead and roll proper damage on that.

SAM: Okay, the first, okay, so is that 6d4 plus one?

MATT: This would be Magic Missile, cast at level six, technically, I'm pretty sure–

SAM: Well, it's weird, because my–

MATT: So it would be– it would be 6d6 plus six.

SAM: 6d6 plus six?

MATT: Oh, I'm sorry. 6d4 plus six. Bleah.

TRAVIS: (chuckles) Heh, math.

MATT: Hey.

SAM: Sorry, it's close.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: One more? 12 plus what? Six? 12 plus six. 18.

MATT: 18? Okay. The missiles (impact noises) slamming into the side, arcing off and swirling around Percy to hit it, anime-missile-streak style, hitting it from all sides, you can see chunks of its body being blown off from the force of the arcane casting. It still stands, though it is dripping from multiple wounds and is having a hard time.

TALIESIN: I got this.

MATT: Ending your turn, Scanlan?

SAM: I think so, I mean, I'm okay. I'll heal myself a little bit more with another level one Healing Word.

MATT: Go for it, take your d4 plus five.

SAM: Okay. Seven more points– yay!

MATT: You're up.

LIAM: I'm going to start walking towards it and dagger, and dagger, and dagger.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: First is 20.

MATT: 20 hits.

LIAM: Second is 23.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third is a 23.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: So, we get–

MATT: This is Sneak Attack.

LIAM: Ten for the fir– Sneak Attack? Is it near something?

MATT: Percy is in melee range with it.

LIAM: Okay, so the first is ten plus– wah!

LAURA: Oh no, dice down!

LIAM: Ten plus 16, 23, (growling) 29, 36, 39, 41 for the first dagger.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

LIAM: I will aim for its open mouth as it's going “huah.” And pin its tongue into the back of its skull.

MATT: As you step forward, your first dagger, you pull it out and aim it and over-the-hand toss it as it rears back, ready to bring its fangs out to sink down into Percy, the dagger vanishes into its throat, and you see its face go lax for a second. (wet coughs) It begins trying to cough, and as it does, you can see bits of blood and gore from its throat being hawked across the ground. It takes a few steps. Percy steps out of the way as it heads towards you before it rears back and (choking, thump) and collapses onto the ground. You can see the blade still sticking out the back of its head, towards the back of its throat, before it appears at the side of your belt.

SAM: Sorry I made a noise, guys, sorry.

LAURA: Next time, stealth. We should get inside.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: We should hide.

TALIESIN: We should– we should take what we can and we should also hide the bodies.

LAURA: Good call.

TALIESIN: Let's bring everything inside.

MARISHA: I go down to the wyverns and I start going for those stingers.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: If you can do this quickly, Keyleth, because we need to hide these bodies.

MATT: It's going to take you a while to do it.

LIAM: Can I assist with my Keen Dagger, and help her under her instruction?

LAURA: Let's get them inside.

LIAM: We're going to drag the wyverns indoors?

TALIESIN: Drag everything indoors.

SAM: Wait, wait, wait– these stingers are on the end of tails?

LIAM and TALIESIN: Yeah.

SAM: Grog, can you chop off their tails and we'll take the tails with us?

LAURA: No, we've got to get the wyverns inside. If anything flying overhead sees these bodies, they know something's been attacked.

SAM: Aren't half of them burned to a crisp anyway?

TALIESIN: Not crisped, just scorched.

MARISHA: There's some ash. I go ahead and I do a cantrip, Gust, and start spreading out the ash.

MATT: Okay. It still looks like someone emptied a bunch of fireplace ash pits into the center of the walkway where there once were lizardfolk.

LAURA: I'll have the bag.

TRAVIS: What for?

LAURA: Just the Dust of Tracelessness.

SAM: I give us cover. I'll blow my Horn of Fog.

LAURA: I start putting the Dust of Tracelessness down on the ground so it looks like nobody's been here.

MATT: Low fog sound as Scanlan blows the horn. Fog fills the vicinity and you guys begin tossing Dust of Tracelessness around–

TRAVIS: I go grab the humanoid figures and I throw two over my shoulders and then I get one in each hand and I start dragging them toward a door?

TALIESIN: Any– inside. Just inside.

TRAVIS: To an “any inside.”

LIAM: I'll get the door for you. (door creaks)

MATT: All right, you guys pretty quickly manage to move what you can out of the way, we'll say over the next few minutes the fog is there. Under that cover, you begin to drag the wyvern bodies into the alleyway, into the shadows. If you want to go ahead and make some checks here to go ahead and see if you can harvest.

MARISHA: Yeah, okay, let's do different ones. Okay, so first one, I'll definitely take advantage, so, since I have advantage– not that much better– 14. The first one.

LIAM: Would it help if I gave her my Keen Dagger for the rest of it?

MATT: I would say, given the circumstance, all it would do would offer her advantage, which she already has, so it wouldn't make much difference. So the first one, it's been a little too damaged in battle and you aren't able to really draw any poison from the stinger for the first one– what's the second one?

MARISHA: Second one, 15 total.

MATT: 15's what you needed. You manage to extract just enough of the wyvern stinger poison for possibly a single dose, so you can mark down a dose of wyvern poison.

MARISHA: Okay, I'll give it to– I'll give that to Vax. Do you have poison? Or do you– Vax or Vex– I give it to one of the twins. Here, twins. You fight over it. Fight over it.

LAURA: Is it good for you?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Two more, maybe I can– 14– Okay, well, the second one I rolled a 25.

MATT: Okay, so that's a second dose of wyvern poison.

MARISHA: That I give to Vex. Last one– I'll take that 15, with– 26.

MATT: All right, so you have three doses of wyvern poison that you've managed to harvest from these creatures; you guys can distribute as you see fit.

TALIESIN: Anything else to loot from these schmuckuses?

MATT: They don't carry much gold, and what they have, you envision, probably went to the entity that rules Emon. And as you're looking over the bodies of the few of the lizard men here, you see they didn't just wander their way in here. And you remember mention from Allura before that there were lizardfolk worshipers of Thordak years ago. Apparently, once the city's been taken, Thordak has, or at least the worshipers of Thordak are also moving in. So, taking this time to harvest poisons, looking over the bodies, you can see the consistency between their red, crimson-dyed leather materials, and you get the sensation that while this was a small skirmish group, this is probably the new policing state of Emon. So. With that, we'll take a quick break for the restroom. We'll pick up here in just a few minutes, guys, if you want to hang tight. And we'll see you here shortly.
Break
Part II

MATT: Jumping back in– As the party re-gathers themselves after the battle with these lizardfolk and the wyverns in the center of the city of Emon, you slowly make your way back through the streets towards the north, passing through Abdar's Promenade, finding the building that was previously brought to your attention thanks to Garthok.

LAURA: Should we take a short rest, though, before we head down to the Clasp? Because some of us have taken some hits–

TALIESIN: We'll take a breath in the–

LAURA: Okay. Before we head down?

TALIESIN: Yeah. In the basement.

MATT: So you guys find the building that was brought to your attention; you head down into the same cellar, keeping tabs on the external trap that was brought to your attention by Garthok last time. You make your way inside. There's the same barrel in the far corner; you pull the top off and there, indeed, is a ladder that leads down underground.

LAURA: This is why I left Trinket. Because he wouldn't have been able to come down here anyway. Just so you know.

TRAVIS: Hey, search that shit, Vax.

MARISHA: He's very claustrophobic.

LIAM: So we've just got ladder down. That's it?

MARISHA: Well, hang on, let's heal up. I need to hit dice it up as well.

LIAM: Well, I'm fine, so while everybody is–

TRAVIS: I would not like to take a short rest.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: I lose all my Fancy Feast if I do.

LIAM: Just do some push-ups. Just do some push-ups while I check this ladder out. So I'm going to check for any traps on this ladder or anything.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah yeah yeah! Can she heal me instead?

LAURA: I'll heal you. I'm going to heal you–

LIAM: 23.

MATT: Okay. Looking at the barrel, there are no traps currently set, and it's not locked. The only traps were on the outside of the cellar, from what you knew previously, and as that mechanism had already been shown to you by Garthok, so that was easily disabled.

LIAM: I'm not going to go crazy, I'm just going to go to the bottom of the ladder– in I go.

MATT: Okay. So while you guys are taking a rest–

LIAM: 30 for stealth.

MATT: You drop down the ladder. As you head down what probably comes to about 15, 20 or so feet into pitch black– it's completely dark down there. Do you have any light source, or do you want to–

LIAM: I have a Flame Tongue Dagger.

MATT: Okay, so you pull the Flame Tongue Dagger. It puts out a very, very low candlelight, opens up the vicinity to you as your feet splash down into very, very shallow, a couple inches, shallow water. Looking around you, you are in a subterranean sewer system. The smell hits you as you hit the bottom of it. This is the entire underbelly of Emon, and there is the slight sound of trickling water that's rushing through this tunnel you're currently standing in. The ladder drops close to about a foot above the floor before it comes to a complete stop. Looking to your right, it descends a little further down on that side, and you can hear– make a perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay. To the right of you, what should be the eastern tunnel, you can hear the sound of trickling water growing louder; it's almost like this stream meets another. As you listen to the left, and the stench is pretty rough in this part, to the left you can see in the tunnel is a very, very faint dim, yellow light that is shifting ever so slightly in the distance as it curves around out of view. It is level to where you are now, actually, slight incline for a little bit.

LIAM: (quietly) Vex'ahlia– There is a long tunnel down here and there is a bit of faint light. I have Percy's fancy rock; I am not planning on doing anything crazy, but I think I should–

LAURA: You don't have the– the rock doesn't work until we sleep. You don't have anything.

LIAM: Well, technically I do still have it. Regardless, I should go ahead and, if there's anyone to talk to, I should talk– I'm not going to go yet, I'm going to wait 'til you guys have rested, and come down to– it's pitch-black down here, I'm not running ahead. I'm better at this shit than you and the rest are, so take a rest, I'm going to sit here–

LAURA: You're better at talking than the rest of us are?

LIAM: Sometimes, Stubby, yes.

LAURA: How will I know if you get into trouble, and your hands are tied–

SAM: Do you need me to come?

LAURA: We can all hear you.

(laughter)

LIAM: Stubby, could you come down here for me?

MARISHA: Hi, Vax.

LAURA: Hold on just a moment. Mind the gap.

MATT: You splash down into the sewer system.

LAURA: Eugh, fuck, it smells down here.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Do I have to step in the water?

LIAM: Probably. Come here.

LAURA: Yes?

LIAM: All right so, before all these guys– you were being stalked by someone, I don't know for what reason, I don't know who the person was, I don't know what they wanted with you.

LAURA: Stalked?

LIAM: Someone wanted you, and I don't know who. The Clasp was going to get you for them, and I stopped that from happening. I followed you one night, or rather, followed this person following you, and met the Clasp. And I made an exchange for your life.

LAURA: What?

LIAM: I went and got someone else. And–

LAURA: And said it was me? No–

LIAM: Not immediately. You're almost on it. They told me to get a body, I got a body. A living body. A child rapist. And brought him to the Clasp, and they brought out a stick– really it was made of human tongues.

LAURA: A stick. Of human tongues.

LIAM: Yes. They touched it, and he turned into you.

LAURA: What the fuck?

LIAM: And they took that guy. For whatever. And in exchange for your life, I have this, and they are allowed to call on me when they want. So, I know that we've run in and out a couple of times, but we're going in. You can talk my fucking ear off in a moment, all right? Just shut up for a second. We are going to go in and try to form some sort of alliance or working partnership, this is different than running in, smashing some shit and running out, all right? So keep the cloak up, hang back, don't say a lot, and you can talk my ear off later.

LAURA: Okay, I will do that, I want to know that tongue guy, that looks like me– is he dead or is he alive now? They gave him to some stalker, some stalker!

LIAM: I don't know why you were wanted, I don't know what it was about, all I knew is that they were going to take you away and I wasn't going to let that happen and I took some fucking piece of shit and traded him in.

LAURA: So there could be at this moment in time another person that looks just like me parading around the world?

LIAM: Well, if I had to wager on it, I'd say that he's in a dungeon in a rubber suit, but I don't know where, no.

LAURA: Well, thank you. For, you know, doing that– (nervous laugh)

LIAM: I never told you because it's creepy as fuck.

LAURA: Was it the Clasp here, was it the Clasp in Westruun?

LIAM: It was in Westruun.

LAURA: Well, these guys probably don't know me.

LIAM: Probably? Probably.

LAURA: I'll put my hood up–

LIAM: Stay at the back.

LAURA: I would like to find out who the guy was that wanted me, though. That's kind of weird. Thank you. For everything. thank you. You always have my back and I know it.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: And for that, I won't say very much.

LIAM: You do you, Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Everyone can come down.

MATT: So as you finish your short rest, you all progressively find your way down the ladder and to the subterranean sewer system. The choice is to travel to the east or western side of the tunnel.

LIAM: Sounds like there's, I don't know, drainage or something coming from slightly up in that direction.

LAURA: I'm guessing towards the light, is where they are. Scanlan?

SAM: Oi?

LAURA: Do you have something that can make disguises? Don't you have like, not the mustache, but something that can really change my looks?

SAM: How do you know I'm Scanlan? I could be in disguise, but yes I do.

LAURA: Could I use that?

SAM: You would have to attune it to yourself– is that right?

LAURA: Oh, it takes like a little bit?

SAM: Oh no no no, requires attunement. What do you think?

LIAM: Well, that's not a bad idea, but it means we've got to sit in this stank.

SAM: I can instantly make us, with Seeming, I can instantly make us all look different.

Or just you.

LAURA: Or just me. How about just me? I've got a question, though. Here's the thing: if you think that they know what I look like, don't you think they know what you look like? Because you look just like me. So what difference does it make if I'm there or not?

LIAM: I don't know if the person who wanted you was part of the Clasp. I don't know who it was. It's parading you around in front of the people who made an illicit deal with me.

LAURA: All right, all right, all right. Seeming, how about that?

LIAM: It could be fine. I don't know.

LAURA: Okay! Seeming?

SAM: Yeah, no–

LAURA: Please?

SAM: (smarmily) It's pretty high-level stuff–

LAURA: Scanlan, what if I heal you?

SAM: What if I– ooh! I cast Minor Illusion and give her a moustache. What about that? Is that pretty good?

MATT: A fancy, fancy moustache that you cannot wipe off your face!

TRAVIS: Hey, that's very handsome.

LIAM: I don't think that's going to be enough. It's not quite enough for our purposes.

SAM: All right, I dispel it.

LAURA: How about a limerick as payment, Scanlan?

SAM: A limerick for you?

LAURA: For you.

SAM: Oh! You're going to give me a limerick?

LAURA: I'll give you a limerick. Hold on. I've been preparing it–

LIAM: She's multiclassing a third time.

LAURA: Have you heard tale of Scanlan the Bard? / Or Burt Reynolds, if you look at his card. Always tries to get laid / Sometimes with ladies he made! / But I still respect him, 'cause rhyming is hard.

(laughter, cheering)

SAM: That was excellent.

LIAM: Second firestorm of the night.

TRAVIS: Where's the extinguisher?

MATT: I will give you a d6 inspiration dice for that.

LAURA: Yay!

SAM: Wait– me or her?

MATT: Her.

SAM: Wow. That's impressive. Here's the hat. You can use it–

LAURA: Oh, thanks, Scanlan.

SAM: In about 20 minutes you'll be able to use it.

LAURA: I take off my circlet, I guess, and I put on the hat.

LIAM: How 'bout that smell, everyone? Eh?

MARISHA: Did you live in this?

LIAM: I never lived–

MARISHA: Did you deal with this!? Oh, oh, that's good.

LIAM: I'm, like, a distant cousin to all this.

(laughter)

MATT: In the time it takes for you to take the Hat of Disguise and go ahead and attune to that, you guys are now prepared. What path would you like to take?

SAM: Towards the sounds, yes?

MATT: Well, you have the sound of water rushing to the right, in the darkness, and you have the sound, or, yeah, the view of slight moving light to the left.

LIAM: But did you say, on the right, is it going down, or is it coming down?

MATT: The water is trickling downward; the water continues sloping downward this way. The opposite direction is where the light is. The little bit of light you see in the distance.

TALIESIN: I say we follow the water.

LIAM: Follow the water down or follow the light?

MARISHA: Follow the water towards the light. Right?

TRAVIS: Jesus, what the fuck are we doing here?

LIAM: This is like the Underdark again.

SAM: I abstain.

LAURA: Let's go towards–

MARISHA: Towards the light.

TALIESIN: I'll do whatever they say.

MARISHA: Are we going towards the light or towards the rushing water?

TRAVIS: Light.

MARISHA: All who vote “light,” say “aye.”

TALIESIN, LAURA and TRAVIS: Aye.

MARISHA: All who vote “water,” say “aye.”

TALIESIN: Aye.

MARISHA: To the light.

MATT: So you guys head– left, or–

LIAM: Is there any– I'm sorry, one last question. Is there any Thieves' Cant on the walls at all?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I look, too?

MATT: You know what, yes, you can.

SAM: With inspiration.

TRAVIS: Is there any poo on the floor?

LIAM: 31.

LAURA: Oh, he doesn't need my help.

MATT: Looking along the walls, you start heading in that direction, you do see a few markings that basically say 'sanctuary' in Thieves' Cant, in the direction of the light.

LIAM: All right. Confirmed.

MATT: You guys continue onward?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll lead the way. Yeah, we sat here for 20 minutes in the stank.

MATT: Yes. (clears throat) So, you guys continue forward up that tunnel. Eventually, as it curves around, the light– you can see– it's shifting, because it appears to be a distant fire light that is the source in this vicinity, and as you turn the corner, as the tunnel slowly curves around, it opens up into a large central sewer chamber, though most of it is dry, and you can see there is a large mound of dirt in the center that seems to rise above most of the water that has collected along the ceiling, and there are a series of platforms constructed out of wooden scaffolding at different levels all throughout this chamber. Some of it looks a little rickety, some of it looks very old, but various states of moisture rot.

(offscreen sneeze)

MATT: You hear a sneeze from the distance from one of the–

(laughter)

MATT: As you look and see a series of small bonfires throughout the room that are currently lit and surrounded by figures. You see a ramshackle tent city, and/or a series of small, wooden hovels that have constructed here. You see a number of figures that are huddled around these bonfires: cloaks, hoods up, generally keeping warm in what is a relatively cold, subterranean area. You guys, glancing over here, as you're first looking, and you can see a few of them appear to be laid up and hurt, and there appear to be at least a few individuals that are heavily bandaged or have slings on. As you guys step into the room, not being very stealthy in your arrival–

LIAM: We could have been, but I use a bit of sign language from the Cant, and let them know that I'm part of the Clasp?

MATT: Okay. A few of them stand up, hands on the side of their hilt, and stop there for a second before one individual steps out of the shadows and puts his hand up, putting it down. You recognize this to be Garthok.

SAM: Garthok!

MATT: He says, “Don't worry, they're with me. I'm glad you made it. It had been a while. I was afraid maybe you wouldn't come.”

SAM: We got held up by some wyverns. I almost died, it was crazy. We're here now.

MATT: “It sounds like it. I'm sorry to hear it.”

SAM: Hey. It's all right.

MATT: “I'm glad you stayed alive.” And as he starts to talk, the group of individuals standing about ten feet behind him separate as another figure pushes past them. Pulling the hood back, you can see a man about six feet in height, average human height, long, blond hair that trails past the middle of his back over a dark grey cloak. Fine features at one time; he looks older, you can see the weathering in his face and the various wrinkles and lines from years and years of living in this atmosphere.

LIAM: You said “human”, right?

MATT: Human, yes. He has a red-tinted monocle over one eye.

SAM: Ooh! I like him already.

MATT: As he steps forward, the rest of the Clasp put their hands off to the side of their weapons. He pushes aside Garthok to the rest of you and says: “So, you are the ones called Vox Machina, am I correct in this assumption?”

SAM: Yes, you are.

MATT: “Hmm! Trusted of Uriel, executors of Modeth the Traitor. One among you is a member as well, "I'm told.”

LIAM: I step forward.

MATT: “Then you are welcome here. I am Spireling Shenn–”

SAM: (whispers) Spireling Shenn?

MARISHA: (murmurs) He's a Spireling!

MATT: “Master of networks and information–”

SAM and MARISHA: Ooh!

MATT: “–of the Clasp of Emon. Excuse the mess, we lost a portion of our territory and are currently caught in mid-adaptation. So, what can I do for you?”

LIAM: Well, you know who we are.

MATT: “And you know who I am, now.”

LIAM: Yes. And you know my spotty track record with the Clasp. But that's all past now. The city's in ruins. You're looking at the right hand of Uriel.

MATT: “Uriel is no longer with us. You are a hand to nothing.”

LIAM: Of course. We're looking for what to do next with this city. I don't think any of us wish to be the pets of the beast that's now roosting in the heart of Emon.

MATT: (chuckles) “No, that does not do any of us any good. Business has ground to a halt, and we've lost a few good patrons in this unfortunate circumstance. We lost our entire northern tunnel structure as soon as the creature attacked the Cloudtop District.”

LIAM: Well, I'll be honest, our first thought was to flee this city.

MATT: “Safer.”

LIAM: But before we make that decision– yes, it is– we know that you're the next best thing to a government in Emon.

MATT: “Hmm.”

LIAM: And we want to know what's left behind.

MATT: “Well, we're seeing to our own. We're going to see how many of our allies still lie within the city. Going to reach out to our friends across Tal'Dorei and see how much of a network we still stand to keep. Then we call in a few debts, reach out to some friends and, ah, we see if we can find some way to supplant this red thing.”

LIAM: Can I insight check?

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Not good. No. Nine.

SAM: Nine, you said?

LIAM: Nine. The plan now is to lay low and hide?

MATT: “Well, for now, I have a number of operatives topside who are currently trying to get as much information on the red one as possible. The piles of wealth are growing, and it looks like the beast is building a damn home out of the district.”

TALIESIN: The city's going to need a black market.

MATT: “Oh, I am aware, and we are preparing for that. However, it's still fairly fresh, and individuals aren't willing to release any coin when all of it goes to the pouches of the thing that sits on us. Word has gotten back that Westruun was also hit rather hard in the night. And these creatures have continued eastward ever since– no further word on their whereabouts. So we're put in a reactionary position, which I loathe. We're used to being ahead of the rest of the curve.”

TALIESIN: Well, here's where we could help each other.

MATT: “It would appear that could be a possibility.”

TALIESIN: We need this city to stay alive. We need the citizenry to be fed, and we need people to know where they're going to get their medicine and when they're going to get their food. We understand it's going to be tricky. We need information, we need spies, we need to know what's happening in the city, and you need people like us to stay out of your way.

MATT: “That seems like a fairly top-heavy trade in our direction, if you ask me. There are many ways to get people out of our way.”

TALIESIN: There are ways that we can benefit each other.

MATT: “I would love to hear it.”

SAM: (whispers) I would, too.

TALIESIN: We have safe haven– and please, by the way, stop me if you feel I'm being too broad.

SAM: No, go for it.

TALIESIN: We have our keep that is untouched by the dragon's attack– we have a safe haven.

MATT: “Hmm. How is this keep accessed?”

LIAM: We can get to that.

TALIESIN: There are– options.

LIAM: We also have strong connections to Whitestone.

LAURA: And Vasselheim.

SAM: And to The Slayer's Take– that's what they're called, right? Yes? There could be a formidable force that could come to protect the city or drive out the dragons.

LIAM: We're proposing a short-term solution– you want to get back to a position where you can grease the wheels and make money. That's not going to happen anytime soon. But you can't take care of these beasts on your own. And neither can Whitestone, neither can we.

TALIESIN: But it is very likely that we will be the thing that is dropped upon it from a great height, and the most cooperation we can get, getting into a position of power over this beast, the happier we'll all be.

MATT: “Hmm. Let's say we do this, let's say we go forward with this alliance. You get out of our way, you promise resources from Whitestone, perhaps? They have quite a few unique contributions they could make. The Slayer's Take– I have not had many dealings across the Ozmit Sea, but are you referring to, ah, Vasselheim?”

SAM: Indeed. They are a mighty force.

MATT: “Now, that is a tough nut to crack, that city. If you're connected in Vasselheim, perhaps we can talk.”

LAURA: There's no guarantees you'll be able to get in anywhere.

MATT: “There's no guarantees we'll be able to provide food or medicine– it's dangerous times, my dear.”

LAURA: It is. But the sooner these dragons are defeated, the sooner business can get back to usual.

MATT: “Of course.”

LAURA: Ow. I mean– (fake coughs) eh.

SAM: I know I'm getting a bit ahead of ourselves, but once the dragons are gone and the city's returned to normalcy, what is your ultimate goal? To hold power or to remain in the underbelly?

MATT: “All the real power lies in the underbelly, my friend. I have a proposition for you, then. We will do this. We have many channels and secret tunnels throughout the city, and we could very easily deliver food, medicine, shelter, even, to the wired and poor and downtrodden folk of this town, be the subterranean heroes of Emon. Out of the goodness of our hearts, of course. However, once this creature is toppled, and the city is brought toward, I gather you would have the ear of whoever comes to power in this city.”

SAM: We may very well be the person that comes to power in this city.

MATT: “That is helpful. And I imagine you also have some presumably powerful connections in Vasselheim. We would be interested in beginning a sect of our fair trade in that distant, all-too– how do I put it? Xenophobic cityscape?”

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: “If you agree to be our seed in that stubborn garden of a town, you have our aid.”

MARISHA: Can you give us a moment? (softly) Please?

MATT: “My patience grows thin.”

MARISHA: (whispering) Can we talk about this for a second, guys?

MATT: He adjusts the monocle on his eye.

MARISHA: Do we really need them? Are they really providing us with enough to make this worth our while, to where we essentially want to open up the Pandora's Box of crime in Vasselheim? Do we want to be responsible for that?

TRAVIS: Well, I'm all about Pandora and her box, but I don't think we really need this. It's not worth all of that. Especially if we're going to Vasselheim.

MARISHA: I feel like we just took one pretty top-heavy deal and traded it for an even more top-heavy deal not in our favor.

TALIESIN: Oh no, I'm not– I feel the urge to further discuss this. Also, to be fair, we're not representatives of the Clasp; we couldn't, technically speaking, open– All we can do is– I think, the most fair thing to do– to offer in exchange for this is perhaps some trade with the materials that are available in Whitestone and maybe a promise of keeping a blind eye towards their business until the finished reconstruction of the city. Let them reestablish themselves until the city is properly completed.

LAURA: Don't say that.

TALIESIN: You need an underbelly. Underbellies are function. Underbellies function for this very need: the fact that we can actually get food and medical supplies into the city right now if we need to. Less than 72 hours after such a devastating attack, there's no other system–

LIAM: If the Clasp were to vanish, something else would take its place.

TALIESIN: They're inevitable.

LAURA: But I don't want to introduce them to Vasselheim, no.

TALIESIN: At the cost of people starving or not starving.

LAURA: We're already here, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I'm down for joining them and letting them join our cause, and using their infrastructure, but beyond that–

LIAM: Can I use perception to make sure that we're really private right now?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I join in?

LIAM: 22– Oh, 22, plus can I use my inspiration on this?

MATT: When'd you get that inspiration die?

LIAM: I got it in the wyvern fight.

MATT: It would've faded by now, unfortunately.

LIAM: Okay, so 22.

LAURA: 33.

MATT: 33? You're far away from the crowd. However, Spireling Shenn has been very concentrated in shifting his attention from each person that is currently speaking in this conversation.

MARISHA: He's reading our lips.

LAURA: I turn my back to him and I say, he can read our lips as well as I can.

TALIESIN: Of course he can, which is why I'm not saying anything that I wouldn't want him to hear anyway. I just don't want to promise anything we can't deliver. I don't think we could deliver Vasselheim; we're going to be busy! We have too much on our plate as it is.

LAURA: I don't think they'd listen to us anyway, honestly.

TALIESIN: I'm going to offer what we can give, and see if that's enough.

SAM: We have to have something to sweeten the pot.

MARISHA: Yes.

SAM: What are you offering, money?

LAURA: Offering to sweeten the pot– we're defeating a fucking dragon! Let them get back to normal.

SAM: We can't promise that! The dragon could very easily kill us!

LAURA: We could say– They certainly can't do it without us. And we can't do it without them. But we'll be bringing in other armies with us.

MARISHA: I agree– it's joined forces at this point, that's all we can offer them. A place to fight at our side.

TRAVIS: You're still assuming he's going to keep his word, too.

TALIESIN: Let me go back to him. (deep sigh) Shenn.

MATT: “Yes, hmm.”

TALIESIN: I propose a counter-offer. I just don't feel comfortable offering Vasselheim; I don't think that we could necessarily deliver, and we, honestly, have a lot to do.

MATT: “All I'm asking is an introduction to a handful of key figures in the city, no more than that.”

TALIESIN: Well, I will not promise that now. What I can promise right now is some access to materials from Whitestone, which– and I show him my gun hilt, which is embedded with the gems. I can see what's still lying around, and we can make a deal. I can also promise that for the reconstruction, once this has been dealt with, which is in everybody's best interest, until such time as there's a functioning government in this city, you will be treated with the respect appropriate of a group of people who are helping keeping the city functional.

MATT: “You act like that hasn't been our treatment for the entirety of this city's existence. You think your council didn't have dealings with the Clasp for many years before this happened?”

TALIESIN: Of course they have.

MATT: “We helped make this city function. All we're offering is this service to other places that maybe don't have the right guidance to achieve their true greatness. All I ask is an introduction. Beyond these other. Far after the fact; don't even need to worry about it now. Who's to say what changes from now to then?”

LAURA: Who would we even introduce you to?

MARISHA: We don't even know anyone.

SAM: Yes, we do. We know some high-ranking clerics. We know the Slayer's Take. We met a bunch of people up there.

MARISHA: In a zealot city? You want to go to a cleric and be like, “Hey. Thought you might want to meet the underground mob boss.”

MATT: “We don't have to worry about that now. Just a simple handshake, and it's all done.”

TALIESIN: I'll put something forward to the group. If they prove themselves honorable, if they prove themselves faithful and capable of keeping this city afloat, then we will speak to whomever they wish us to speak to precisely of what they did. No more, no less.

MATT: “If this is an issue of morality, I would like to remind you that, one, we've let you escape after murdering one of our leaders, only upon learning that he himself was an immoral individual.”

LIAM: You're welcome.

MATT: “Also, we went against our word as an organization by letting you take a war criminal that had already paid his way out of the city.”

TALIESIN: And for that, we are grateful.

LAURA: And we gave you something very powerful in exchange.

MARISHA: And you got to keep that man's money.

TALIESIN: That was business.

MATT: “It was business, but business that was persuaded by the actions of good people, and bringing justice. We want society to thrive.”

TALIESIN: I'm willing to kick this ball down the field.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: “So. Not wasting any more time, shall we make this a fine, healthy city once again?”

TALIESIN: This feels a fair deal to me, and it means that we can leave knowing that the city will, in fact, still have a populace while we're gone.

MARISHA: You seem used to selling your soul, Percy.

TALIESIN: It is the job of ruling.

SAM: If we come back and learn that you have made a deal with the dragons, you'll be the first to die, not them.

MATT: “Oh. I would only hope that would be the case. I wouldn't be caught dead dealing with such a selfish entity.”

SAM: All right, then let's do this. Keyleth, shake the man's hand.

TALIESIN: You don't have to.

SAM: You've got nice soft hands.

TALIESIN: Vax?

TRAVIS: It should be Vax.

TALIESIN: This is not the worst deal I've ever heard.

MARISHA: You just don't know that yet.

MATT: “I have things to do.”

TALIESIN: I have met the devil. That's not him.

LAURA: Don't do it.

MARISHA: Percy, you make me so nervous.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: “I haven't all day. My arm grows weary with impatience.”

MARISHA: Vax?

SAM: Would you like me to sing to give you some extra strength for that arm?

TALIESIN: Vax, I will make the deal if you're not up to it, but I want your blessing.

LIAM: You know what? Keep your deal.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Attaboy.

SAM: We're going to leave the city abandoned?

TRAVIS: Yes.

SAM: With no one to protect it?

MARISHA: We are not abandoning it. We already discussed it. There's more than one way to cut through this knot.

LIAM: I don't think you're going to let this city fall, anyway. If this city dies, you've nothing.

MARISHA: I agree.

LIAM: If the parasite hasn't a host to feed on, the parasite dies. No, thank you.

MARISHA: Percy? I'm sorry, but I think our methods of being rulers might differ. I don't think I need to sell myself for the greater good.

MATT: “Very well. Unfortunate as it is. Step forward.”

LIAM: Is this a whisper?

MATT: No, this is him asking you to step forward. He steps really close to you, and he takes you by the shoulders and turns you around to face away from him. Do you resist?

LIAM: I'm going to roll out of his hands forward to my friends.

MATT: Okay. Make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: 28.

MATT: 28. You tumble away from his grasp, and he (grunts). “Very well. I know your face now, at least. And the rest of the Clasp will know you are a false member, now. You are not welcome in these tunnels ever again, and if we see your face amongst our kind, it will be our word that you are to be taken on sight. It's a shame you've marked yourselves our enemy this day. I wish it wasn't this way. But to step up and confront us with such disrespect for all the patience we've shown you in previous years is just– it irks me. Stinks of a lack of civilization. So please be on your way. We'll do as we do. You do as you. Now be gone.” And he turns around, flicks his cloak, and steps back into the group. The rest of them keep their hands on their belts and wait for you to leave.

SAM: I look at Garthok and say, “Even you?”

MATT: Garthok actually gives you a very stern look and pulls his blade an inch from the side of his scabbard.

TRAVIS: I wouldn't do that.

MATT: At which point, you can see 25 more Clasp members step out. Even wounded ones as they are, all stepping up and gathering. There are now 35 to 40 of them starting to form out of the shadows, forming a semicircle around you entirely.

SAM: Don't do it, Grog.

TALIESIN: Absolutely not.

MARISHA: Let's go. Come on.

TRAVIS: A fellow can't smile every once in a while?

LAURA: We'll just back up.

TALIESIN: I take a bow, and I turn my back to them and walk out.

LAURA: I do not turn my back. I walk backwards the entire way out, with an arrow notched.

TRAVIS: I stay next to Vax.

SAM: I say, party on, Garthok. And then we leave.

LAURA: Keyleth? Darling? Could you maybe make a wall of stone and close off this tunnel?

MARISHA: Unfortunately, no.

LIAM: Save a thought for the people of Emon, if you've any room left in your narrow minds. And I back out.

MARISHA: I end with, hopefully, you will realize there is a far greater enemy at hand than the personal squabbles between us small people. And I also step away.

MATT: The Spireling's not even in view at this point. He's disappeared amongst the rest of them.

MARISHA: I'm sure he can hear me.

MATT: Possibly. As you guys exit and find your way back up to the surface, as the last of you makes it outside of the entranceway, you immediately start hearing this slamming and breaking of stone from underneath you, and you gather pretty rapidly that this entrance is being entirely removed for possible entry.

TALIESIN: I would like to point out, since you had such noble intentions towards my position on things, this is your ego at work here. I may be many things, and I may be a deal-maker, but I never forget that when I rule, I rule these people, as well. I'm not better than them. And you may think you're better than them, but this is what it creates. It creates enemies.

MARISHA: No, Percy. The difference is, I don't think I'm better than them.

TALIESIN: They certainly think you do, and they are not pleased.

LAURA: This mark. Is it magic? Can they trace you through this mark?

LIAM: I don't answer. I walk over to Keyleth. Can you still do the thing with your hands?

MARISHA: (fire noise) That thing?

LIAM: I rip my shirt down. I want you to burn it away. Now.

MARISHA: Vex, do you have an arrow?

LAURA: Of course.

MARISHA: I hand it to him. Put this in between your teeth. (sizzling noise)

MATT: (sizzling noise) Searing white pain through the back of your eyes, Vax, as Keyleth presses her palm into the center of your shoulder blades. You can hear the sizzling and cracking of skin, and smell the burning of Vax's flesh in the air in this cellar. Make a constitution check.

LIAM: Seven.

MATT: Seven. You break through the arrow with your grip, and actually give out a very loud, painful scream out of reaction.

LIAM: Like you do.

LAURA: Similar to when you hit me in my arm.

MATT: Kind of. A moment passes. Keyleth, you pull your hand back, and where the Clasp symbol once was, there is a hand mark burned into the back of the shoulders.

TRAVIS: Vecna.

(laughter)

LIAM: It was you.

TRAVIS: Kill her now!

MATT: What would you guys like to do?

SAM: Well, that was a bust.

TALIESIN: That could have gone so much better.

TRAVIS: Vax, I think you made the right call, and I don't think very often.

SAM: Or very well.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: Thank you, Grog.

TALIESIN: I think we could have gotten out of there with at least the hintings of an alliance, as opposed to just–

LAURA: Straight up–

TALIESIN: Bitter enemies. This was a disaster.

TRAVIS: Sometimes you have to walk away from a bad deal to find a good one.

SAM: That's not a thing.

TALIESIN: That's not a thing. Where did– you didn't read that–

MARISHA: I got what you were saying, Grog.

TRAVIS: When it rains, the sun is shining.

LAURA: That's deep, Grog. I like it.

TRAVIS: Stew on that.

LAURA: I cast Cure Wounds on–

LIAM: No!

LAURA: I already did it. Too late! I fucking touched you, fucker.

LIAM: Does that take the scar?

LAURA: It just takes the pain away.

MATT: Cure Wounds? What it does is prevents infection. It does heal you for the hit points you would have lost for that. I'll say it nullifies the damage you would have taken from the burn mark. It does not alleviate you from the scarring. It's not as graphic as it would have been, had it been left to heal on its own, but it does muddle the Clasp symbol somewhat.

LIAM: Okay. Thank you.

SAM: Shall we go back to our keep?

TRAVIS: We could just kill them all now.

LIAM: There's hundreds of them, Grog.

TALIESIN: (splutters) No, we can't.

TRAVIS: I saw, like, 40 or 50.

LIAM: Yeah, there were another 160 in the rafters.

TALIESIN: It would do no good. Who would be bringing food into the city in the first place?

LIAM: They're going to go on doing the same thing they would have done with us or without us.

TALIESIN: They're doing it without us, though.

MARISHA: But Percy, do you honestly think that after all of this was done– do you want to be beholden to those people?

LIAM: And I don't believe they are going to bend the knee to Thordak. I don't believe it.

TALIESIN: They're not going to, no. Of course not.

LIAM: And that was all I, personally, was worried about.

TALIESIN: I wanted people on the inside keeping us informed, and we just lost a very powerful spy network.

LIAM: I think the only people on the inside right now have scales.

TALIESIN: Everybody needs something.

LAURA: Can we go back to the keep?

TALIESIN: We are not going to bother. We're going to go and we're going to find a way of killing these things, and we're going to hope for the best in this city. That's what we're going to do.

MATT: As you guys are heading back, I need stealth checks from everybody.

LAURA: Stealth check. Pass Without a Trace.

MARISHA: Fuck! Natural one.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, really?

MARISHA: Natural one.

LAURA: Then what's the point of anybody rolling?

LIAM: 27.

SAM: 19.

LAURA: 37.

TRAVIS: 29.

TALIESIN: We have a plus ten? 33.

MATT: All right. You guys push southward through the city, finding your way. At this point, the sun has set. Night has come in, and occasionally you hear the flapping of leathery wings overhead as a number of sentry groups of wyvern riders go tearing through the city. At one point, you hear a similar (raspy cry) sound, and you hear other ones begin rising up off the rooftops, heading in your direction, Keyleth. What do you guys do?

TALIESIN: The minute we see that, I'm going to push her against the wall, and I'm going to Minor Illusion a shadow right over her.

MATT: Okay. Make a new stealth check with disadvantage.

LAURA: Add ten.

MATT: (chuckles) It's a natural one on their end.

MARISHA: Oh, good.

MATT: As long as you didn't roll a natural one.

MARISHA: No, I didn't, I rolled an eight, plus a seven, plus ten.

MATT: So, at that point, they (whoosh), one swoops down and lands on the edge of the roof, and you see it curling down. And takes off again, and they continue on, out of the way. You wait a few moments before silence takes the night once more, and you press on heading southward.

(laughter)

LAURA: Nice.

SAM: Good job, Percy.

MARISHA: Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: One day you're going to stop being afraid of me, by the way, and I hope that day comes soon.

SAM: Before we go to the keep, do you want to swing by the place?

TALIESIN: The place?

SAM: The place with the airships.

TALIESIN: There's no “swinging by,” that's a caper. That's an entire thing, that if we're going to do–

SAM: Just to go there and look?

TRAVIS: The showroom is fucked. It's broken.

TALIESIN: This is one of those things that we're going to have to get everybody on board before we even start talking about it, so probably a good night's sleep.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: We need to sleep. We need to get up in the morning–

TALIESIN: And then we'll talk about an airship. I'm really on board with the airship.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: I think we need to go to Vasselheim or Whitestone.

TRAVIS: Vasselheim.

LIAM: We don't need an airship to do that.

LAURA: No, we don't. But we also need to find out what's happening with Allura in Whiterun. Westruun. All those cities.

SAM: All right. Back to the keep then, I guess. When we get there can we check in on Gilmore and the queen?

MATT: Yes. And as you return to the keep, Pike has been taking care of the rest of the individuals, and she's been seeing to Gilmore's side. Gilmore is fast asleep, dealing with the tail end of a fever that has broken, after the healing from the day before. Earlier in the day, I should say. It also appears that Salda and the children have been in and out, keeping an eye as well. Pike, as you enter, looks up to you with a smile, and says, “He'll be all right. He's going to pull through.”

LAURA: That's wonderful.

MATT: “I should probably stay with him for a bit. Make sure he's okay.”

LIAM: Is he unconscious still, or just sleeping?

MATT: He is asleep, currently, yeah. “He's been conscious throughout the day while you were gone, but he's got to rest a bit more. He's still had a rough few days.”

TRAVIS: It's dead on.

TALIESIN: Just needs headphones.

MATT: I just need headphones, and to brush against the mic occasionally. Especially during really really impactful story moments.

LIAM: “What? What?”

MATT: So you guys find yourselves resting for the evening. You take to a night's sleep.

LAURA: You going to sleep, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, you got to sleep.

TRAVIS: I got to sleep.

MATT: If you don't sleep you're going to start getting levels of exhaustion for the next day.

TRAVIS: Oh. Okay.

MATT: All right. So you lose the strength bonus. Everyone, you can get half of your hit dice back.

TRAVIS: That's a lot of–

LIAM: As the sun goes down? It's been down and everyone's going to their rooms? I go to Keyleth's door and knock on it.

MATT: Keyleth.

MARISHA: I open the door. Hi.

LIAM: Hi. I don't want to be alone tonight. Do you?

MARISHA: I haven't been wanting to be alone most nights. And I let him in.

MATT: Okay. So, we–

LAURA: Bow-chicka-wow-wow!

MATT: Jump forward to the next morning–

TALIESIN: That wasn't the kind of ship I was hoping to get.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I don't think we can all fit on that ship.

MATT: So, next morning, you all wake up; full hit points, get back half of your max hit dice that you spent. All your spells back.

LAURA: I give Scanlan the Hat of Disguise back.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: You sure you don't need it?

LAURA: Yeah, fuck 'em.

SAM: All right. Keep up those rhymes. Not bad for a first timer.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so. What's the plan?

SAM: You know, Vex, I don't want to be alone right now.

(laughter)

LAURA: I take his face and I push him down on the ground.

MATT: All right. What's the plan?

MARISHA: I don't know.

LAURA: Do we have a plan?

TALIESIN: I suppose our plan is the Slayer's Take next?

TRAVIS: Yeah, Vasselheim.

SAM: How do we get there? Wait, we have to get rid of all the 'fugees.

LAURA: Yeah. We need to go to Whitestone, then.

TALIESIN: Well, here's the question is do we want to head towards Vasselheim from Whitestone?

LAURA: Yeah, let's do that.

TALIESIN: So we'll all go. We'll take the last of the– I can't believe I'm going to say this– the last of the 'fugees.

SAM: Yes. Ooh, la la la.

LAURA: Wait. All of our guards, and our servants, as well. I don't want to leave everyone here.

SAM: We're abandoning the keep?

LAURA: I don't know what else to do. If dragons attack, our five guards aren't going to be able to do anything.

LIAM: One dragon crashed in the roof of the building.

TALIESIN: Accidentally smushed.

LIAM: What are the cook and the maid going to do?

TALIESIN: Make it breakfast.

LIAM: Jarett's pretty badass, but I don't think he can handle that.

TRAVIS: Dragons get hungry.

SAM: When we come back, our keep will be gone.

TALIESIN: And we'll be able to build it back up.

MARISHA: It'll match the rest of the city, Scanlan.

LIAM: Percival's the lord of Whitestone. He's got a castle!

LAURA: We find a new keep.

SAM: But my room is just the way I want it.

TALIESIN: I'm sure that some lucky dragon's going to come and shit in your bed. It'll be fine.

SAM: All right, if we're going to leave the keep, I'll need a moment in my room.

LIAM: You'll find another room bathed in self-loathing.

(laughter)

LIAM: It doesn't need to be here.

TALIESIN: It takes a good month to bathe a room in that much self-loathing.

SAM: You look like you're glowing this morning.

LIAM: That's ridiculous.

SAM: I've never seen you quite so chipper.

TALIESIN: Let's gather what we need, make sure that Gilmore is ready to move, as well. We'll bring everybody through to Whitestone.

SAM: All right.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I guess we should go tell the guards that they probably will have to leave, if they want.

TALIESIN: And that they can come work in Whitestone.

LAURA: Well, I don't want to force them to, but of course they're welcome to.

LIAM: Why don't you go ask the guards? I'll go talk to the kitchen staff.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: I know who she's going to talk to.

LAURA: He's the captain of the guards, anyway.

MATT: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you speak with the rest of the keep's staff, including the guards as well. Jarett for the most part is like, “As long as I'm still getting paid, we're more than happy to go where you need us to be. If it's further away from dragons, I am okay with that.”

SAM: Don't you need your tools?

TALIESIN: I can pack up my kit, and I've also technically got a reasonable workshop back in Whitestone.

MATT: Okay, so you gather your materials, you prepare at the tree in the center of the keep, you say your goodbyes–

SAM: Before we go out there, I go to my room, I take a dump on my bed–

MATT: You've used it at the temple of Sarenrae–

SAM: No, it's not a potion. Just a straight-up poo.

MATT: Just a straight-up poo? Okay. Marking your territory. I respect that.

SAM: I hang a note on the gate of the keep.

TRAVIS: Shitting on your own bed?

SAM: I don't want anyone else to use it. And with a butter knife, I put a note on the gate to the keep that says, “If Kaylie comes, go to Whitestone. P.S. If my painting is delivered, please forward to Scanlan Shorthalt, care of Whitestone.”

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: “Mind the poo.”

LAURA: I leave a note for Allura, and tell her we've headed to Whitestone, as well.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I don't say Whitestone. I say, “the place where we sent you originally,” so she knows where it is.

MATT: Okay. Notes are placed. Spell is prepared?

TALIESIN: I've packed everything that could possibly be used to make anything dangerous.

MATT: Okay. You have your supplies at the ready. You all gather in the center of the temple of Sarenrae. Keyleth?

LAURA: Not yet, Keyleth!

TALIESIN: We'll be back.

MARISHA: What's wrong? Are you ready, Vex?

LAURA: I mean, it's the first time we've had a home in forever, and we're leaving it.

SAM: Can you make it disappear, or something?

LAURA: We can go. It's nothing.

MARISHA: I can put Hallucinatory Terrain over it, that'll last a bit, but not long enough to make it worthwhile.

LAURA: It's just stone.

LIAM: We've done it once before. We can do it again.

TALIESIN: It will be built back better than before. That's what we do.

LAURA: Let's go.

MATT: The portal opens outside of the tree, and all of the refugees start rushing through. You guys give chase, following over to the opposite side, where Whitestone waits. You all emerge from the Sun Tree in the center of the familiar town.

LIAM: Fucking cold!

MATT: It is chilly. Not as snow-dappled as it was when you first arrived. A little has melted, and the clouds are a little bit more open; you can see some of the blue sky above you. It's actually a beautiful day, if a bit chilly. As you emerge, you can see there's a few individuals in the center of the town, including a couple of the original refugees that seem to be waiting for the rest to come through. They greet you as soon as you arrive, and rush up and grab a couple of people that they had met at your keep. Some come forward and say, “Thank you. I'm so glad you made it!” They shake your hands. You've arrived back in Whitestone. So, do you guys want to wait here for the day, and then make your way to Vasselheim?

SAM: Do we need to talk to anybody here?

TALIESIN: Just to set up to make sure that the queen and her children are taken in at the castle.

LIAM: I imagine you'll fill your sister in.

TALIESIN: I will. I'll fill my sister in on how they're to be taken care of. Make sure that Gilmore is taken care of.

SAM: We may want to stock up on potions and stuff before we leave.

LAURA: Yeah, buy as much as we can.

TALIESIN: There's a shop.

MATT: There is, but you guys have cleaned it out.

LAURA: Buy stuff in Vasselheim.

MATT: They have not had an opportunity to restock. Their main providers have been killed.

LIAM: Do you think that with the time that's passed, Cassandra has found any of the belongings of the Briarwoods? They were pretty snazzy.

TALIESIN: We can ask about that.

MATT: You approach Cassandra, who is happy to greet you once you return. "Did you have a question?”

TALIESIN: Vax?

LIAM: We need to kill some dragons, and we are out of everything. You've been here a while. Have you found anything of the Briarwoods? Any store of treasure or potion or anything of use?

MATT: “Well, the personal effects you all retrieved when they were defeated. What remnants of income or gold which they'd kept was put in with the rest of the Whitestone treasury when they took over.”

LIAM: Not so much interested in gold as in means of protection or healing.

MATT: “They weren't really specialized in healing, I'm afraid, and what bits of protection they had, you've already taken. But if gold is what you need, we can probably spare you some.”

LAURA: I mean, I'm not going to say no to the gold.

TALIESIN: Obviously, we'll sieve the coffer a little bit because we're going to need it for the mission.

LAURA: So very generous of you.

TALIESIN: Also, let's re-employ our castle guards as the Emon royal guards in the meantime, and they can serve the queen and her children.

LAURA: I like it.

MATT: “That can be very easily presented. Oh, here we are!” There's a small chest with a lid that she hands it over to you. Actually, puts it out and your hands are already out. “All right. 2,000 gold from our coffers. It's not much, but we have to keep the city running.”

LAURA: Of course.

TALIESIN: And a small amount of the green gem, if that would be possible, that's left over from the mining operation.

MATT: “Of the glass?”

TALIESIN: Of the glass. If possible.

MATT: “Yes, certainly.”

TALIESIN: Thank you. I'm working on something.

MATT: “Very well.” It takes a few minutes for that to be retrieved from down south of the tomb in the mausoleum, but nevertheless, you get four half-dollar-sized pieces of residuum glass.

TALIESIN: Perfect.

MATT: Four shards of residuum glass. “I hope that's of aid to you. Apology for the confusion. We have quite a bit of individuals to find homes for, and get them running.”

TALIESIN: Gilmore will be of great help.

MATT: “Yes, as you've told me.”

TALIESIN: (laughs) I'm sorry to drop this all on you, and I'm thankful.

MATT: “I'm thankful that we even have an opportunity to offer aid to somebody. That's thanks to you, so it's nothing on us.”

TALIESIN: It will not be the end of it, sadly.

MATT: “That's all right. Whatever we can do. Anyway, good luck.”

TALIESIN: I'll be off in the morning.

SAM: How are we getting to Vasselheim?

TALIESIN: We can teleport.

LAURA: Yeah, teleport, right?

SAM: Is that true?

LAURA: Just pop on over, yeah. We sleep for the night, and then we go over to Vasselheim the next day.

LIAM: Let's have dinner.

LAURA: Hang out in Whitestone for the day.

TALIESIN: I'm going to work on that little project.

LIAM: Whitestone and chill.

TALIESIN: The thing I was trying to attach to my gun but wasn't working, I'm going to try to attach it to my boot instead.

MATT: Interesting.

TALIESIN: I can draw you a sketch.

MATT: All right. While the rest of you guys are attempting to rest, I need you to make a tinker tools check.

LIAM: Tinker tools. This goes in here.

TALIESIN: That's better. 22.

MATT: 22. You've affixed it to your boot. We'll see if it works.

TALIESIN: And I've got one working piece? I know each individual build, I have to build the–

SAM: The nubbin.

TALIESIN: The actual device itself has to be built for individual usage; it's not auto. I'm going to try and build one and see how it goes.

MATT: Okay. So total cost for the materials on that will put you at about 300 gold.

LAURA: What?

SAM: 300 gold.

TALIESIN: I'm working on something.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: I mean, it's your city.

LIAM: Are you borrowing 300 of your gold from the money you loaned to Vex?

TALIESIN: Since the day I've met her, I've given her every bloody dime I've made. So, yes. I no longer even think about it anymore.

LAURA: And I love you for it.

TALIESIN: She's practically the royal treasurer. She's just happier that way.

MARISHA: (laughing) “She's just happier that way.”

MATT: All right. You find an evening's rest. The next morning comes uneventfully. You find yourselves refreshed. I'd say at this point, you're all at full hit dice after two nights of rest; you're fine. So, on to Whitestone, Keyleth?

LAURA and TRAVIS: Vasselheim?

MATT: Sorry. You're in Whitestone.

LIAM: We were just here!

MATT: You recall you've seen a number of trees. The largest you've seen in Vasselheim would probably have been on the outskirts of–

LIAM: Where we fought the hydra, maybe.

MARISHA: We camped out in a few trees outside of Vasselheim.

MATT: Do you want to stop outside the city or within the city, is the question.

MARISHA: Whatever's closest.

TRAVIS: No. No magic in the city.

LAURA: No magic in the city, remember?

MATT: No arcane magic. Divine magic is a different thing. There's plenty of divine magic within the city.

LAURA: Oh, is there a teleportation circle? Do we have one in Whitestone?

MARISHA: There wasn't a teleportation circle to Vasselheim.

MATT: There are no sigils to Vasselheim. Part of their defense process is preventing any secret intrusion in that regard.

TALIESIN: We'll teleport to the outside of the city and perhaps sleep at the temple of Sarenrae.

MATT: There's the Abundant Terrace.

LAURA: We always have rooms at Slayer's Take, remember.

TALIESIN: We do always have rooms at Slayer's Take.

MARISHA: What's the Abundant Terrace?

MATT: That's the section that Melora looks over. That is where primarily most of the farming, food–

MARISHA: Yeah, let's go there.

MATT: That's where you know there are a number of orchards and things that are kept in that vicinity. If you wanted to.

MARISHA: That's right outside the city?

MATT: It's within the city. It's one of the five quarters. I won't say quarters. It's one of the five areas.

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: Quarters.

LAURA: Is Gilmore staying here in Whitestone? Yes?

MATT: Yeah, unless you want to try and bring him with you.

LAURA: No, it makes sense to leave him here, right? Where do you want to stay, Gilmore?

MATT: (laughs) You're approaching Gilmore. He goes, “To be perfectly honest, I'm not quite feeling 100%, and let's just say I'm not a huge fan of the zealot type.”

LAURA: Understandable.

MATT: “Vasselheim doesn't really jangle my dingles.”

LAURA: You've got a whole bookstore devoted to you here.

MATT: “This is true.”

TALIESIN: I would appreciate your help in restarting the economy of Whitestone, to be fair.

MATT: “Well. (sighs) Guess it's not too late to open a new branch of Gilmore's Glorious Goods, since my other, possibly, two no longer exist. (sighs) I was so close to opening. I started from nothing! I can do it again. (coughs) Good luck, you all.”

TALIESIN: You as well.

SAM: So we're going to a tree outside of the city?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MARISHA: Well, it's in the farming district in the city.

MATT: It's in the actual city.

LAURA: All right, cool.

MATT: All right. Using this once again off the Sun Tree, you guys step through. As you emerge out the other side, you are in the thick of a heavy orchard in the Abundant Terrace. There is heavy snowfall that has fallen recently here, and where it was cold in Whitestone, it's cold here in Vasselheim. You can see built-up ice and sleet that has recently been pushed off to the sides of the orchard. Even amongst this very cold weather, all of the plant life in this area is vibrant and springtime green. As you all emerge in the center of this orchard, you can see one of the nearby workers who's tilling the land looks over. “Hey! What are you doing here? You're not supposed to be in the middle of the orchard!”

LAURA: Slayer's Take business. We'll keep moving.

TALIESIN: We were just leaving.

MATT: (groans) “Fucking Slayer's Take. Do whatever the fuck they want.” He drinks out of his canteen. “Fine! Just get out.”

LIAM: Glad that manticore's not in your orchard. That's all I can say.

MATT: “Manticore?”

TALIESIN: That's just cruel.

LAURA: Don't worry. We took care of it.

MATT: (weakly) “Thanks.” He starts looking nervously over his shoulders as he goes back to his work. Eventually, you guys step outside of the Terrace, finding your way to the Quadroads, which is the central network that the four main portions of Vasselheim attach to. This is the Erathis-based center of the town. You have before you, to remind you, at the very northern part of the town is the extremely tall, pointed mountain known as Heaven's Stair. Attached to that mountain on one side is the Silver Talon's Reach. That is the main temple to Bahamut. To the left of it, against the mountain, not actually into it, is the Braving Grounds. This is the area that is geared towards Kord, the deity of war, where you had previously had a conversation with the Dawn Master, the Earthbreaker Groon. There's the Platinum Sanctuary in the Silver Talon's Reach, which is where the Highbearer Vord, the Silver-Touched, the high priest of Bahamut is. You also just left the Abundant Terrace, and there is the Quadroads, which is where the Slayer's Take currently is. And there is the Duskmeadow, which is the Raven Queen's domain. Where do you guys want to go?

LIAM: Remind me, what was the Duskmeadow, again? Was that where we chased the rakshasa?

MATT: That is where the Amaranthine Oubliette resides, which is the prison of the city.

MARISHA: What was the name of the section of the city that has the Slayer's Take?

MATT: That's the Quadroads, the Erathis, deity of civilization.

TRAVIS: So, like, I really want to go talk to the Kung Fu Panda master. I don't think we're going to get a lot of fights in. The guy, I think he was the teacher of Kern. The guy I beat in the crucible.

LIAM: That ripped, chiseled old man?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: The guy who beat you twice?

LIAM, LAURA, AND TRAVIS: No.

TRAVIS: And nobody beat me twice. He got lucky once, get it straight. I want to go talk to him because maybe we need some more fighters and strong folks and I think he might know where they might be.

SAM: We should talk to the Slayer's Take, as well.

TALIESIN: We should get our rooms.

LAURA: Yeah, let's go post up.

TALIESIN: We have things to put down.

MARISHA: And also only about a day's travel from Pyrah.

SAM: What's that? Pyrah?

LAURA: Her home.

SAM: Oh.

TALIESIN: What's left of it. That will be a trip that will be necessary soon, but not yet.

MATT: You guys hit the Slayer's Take first, or where are you heading?

LAURA and TRAVIS: Slayer's Take.

LAURA: Just to let them know we're here and we need some rooms.

MATT: Okay. You make your way to the outside of the main Slayer's Take guildhall. The dark wood exterior greets you happily. You can see they still have a gathering of various antlers of creatures that are tangled into each other that form this rustic-looking entrance. And there on the front doors, you see emblazoned the Slayer's Take– for lack of a better term, their symbol with the words of their actual guild spread across it, as you saw before. Opening the front door, you can see within the main foyer area, there is the dark iron chandeliers that run across the entire length of the moot hall, if you will. Across the front area, you find the clerk desk. Sitting behind it, a familiar red-haired, tousled, chin-bearded, scarred-up tiny man with his feet up on the desk, falling asleep in his chair.

LAURA: (laughs) Oi!

LIAM: Ta-da!

MATT: “What is this craziness? (laughs) Ah! It's been some time.”

LAURA: It has.

MATT: “So. Hello.”

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: “What's your business? What are you looking for?”

LAURA: Dragons? Have you heard about anything?

MATT: “Other than the fact that you killed one. That is the most recent, but nothing beyond that, really, no.”

LAURA: We're going to need rooms.

LIAM: And we're probably going to need to speak to your lady lord.

LAURA: Your wife.

LIAM: Well, your wife, but I'm talking about the boss, here.

LAURA: That's his wife.

LIAM: Higher still: the sphinx.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: “Vanessa, she's currently out on a hunt. Should be back in the next day or so.”

LIAM: We've urgent business to discuss with her. For now, we need a place to stay.

MATT: “Well, you're always welcome here. This is your home away from home, so please, take a load off. Pick a room. It's up to you. It's good to see you all so healthy!”

LAURA: Healthy.

SAM: Thank you, Mertin. Right?

MATT: “Yes. So glad to hear.”

LIAM: The only reason I remember that is it sounds like merkin.

LAURA: Is Zahra around?

MATT: “She's actually currently out with Vanessa on a hunt, as we speak.”

LAURA: That's wonderful.

SAM: Perhaps we could see her.

LIAM: Sorry, we're tired. We've been hopping all over.

MATT: “Me, too. I was sleeping when you came in. I don't mind if I get back to that.”

LIAM: Sorry. Any room?

MATT: “If it's somebody else's room, they'll let you know, so please, take your time.”

LAURA: Well, settle in?

TALIESIN: I'm settling in.

MARISHA: Yeah, I guess we all settle in.

MATT: There's a number of empty rooms. Doesn't look like there's a lot of individuals around. As you walk down one of the hallways, though, you do see there is a card table, and the two individuals in there, you see a very scarred, burly, and frustrated dwarf who's throwing down cards on a table. Black, long series of beards, and his hair over his beard. You see Thorbir is sitting there at the card table with another man wearing really beautiful, ornate armor that is well-polished; very short, dirty blond hair, who is apparently owning him at cards, going, (chuckles) “You've terrible luck, friend. I'm sorry to hear this.”

LAURA: (whispering) Aldor.

MATT: It's Aldor.

TALIESIN: Whoa!

MATT: Thorbir's sitting there, and throws his cards on the table. (scoffs, sighs) “They tell me I'm supposed to have the luck of the dwarves.”

(laughter)

MATT: “Oh. I guess it's about time you all showed up. I'm going to get a drink.” And he gets up, away from the table, and walks away from the rest of you, with a half-hearted “hi,” but he's in a huffy mood and walks off. Aldor takes his winnings and scoops the change into a pouch.

LIAM: Aldor, Aldor, Aldor.

SAM: How's Lyra? Have you seen her?

(laughter)

MATT: “Why? Have you seen her?”

SAM: Not in a while, but we thought you guys were engaged to be married. No?

TALIESIN: That's the last we heard.

MATT: He reaches forward and grabs your shirt and pulls you in. “Where did you hear that?”

SAM: Not from a reliable source, I promise you.

TALIESIN: Very sketchy source.

MATT: “Good. You haven't seen her, have you?”

SAM: Not in a long time.

MATT: “Good.”

LIAM: She's still a member of the Slayer's Take, of course, though. Isn't she?

MATT: “I assume. I just run if I see her. She's a bit–”

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: No! She seems nice to me.

MATT: “Good. You know what, actually, if you want to do me a favor. I mean, she's a nice girl, probably pretty easy if you ask her. Why don't you take her off my hands and go on a date? Take her out for dinner. Distract her.”

SAM: You saw her first. I'm a man of honor.

MATT: “Oh. No. I should go.” He grabs his stuff and leaves in a huff.

TRAVIS: Good to see him.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: He's looking well.

SAM: True love.

MARISHA: It's weird being back, you guys.

SAM: Well, I guess we should ask them all if they want to come with us to fight a dragon?

MARISHA: Yeah, do we do that now, or do we do that in the morning?

TRAVIS AND TALIESIN: In the morning.

LIAM: It feels like we were just running screaming from dragons in the sky.

MARISHA: Yeah. We traveled.

SAM: We'll sleep on it. We'll talk to Nessa in the morning.

LIAM: We'll get up in the morning, we'll take some of that gold, we'll put it to good use, we'll wait until Nessa gets back, and then we'll carve out a plan.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Percival?

TALIESIN: That sounds just fine.

SAM: Kord's strength to us all.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: I wonder if Kashaw is still here.

LIAM: Probably, he works here.

MARISHA: Who?

SAM: Kashaw. That was the one that they went on a–

LAURA: Oh! Right, Keyleth? The guy that kissed you.

MARISHA: (stammers)

TALIESIN: Brooding. Handsome. He was so troubled.

LIAM: He was.

LAURA: He was very handsome.

MARISHA: So we should probably go to sleep, you guys.

LAURA: It's morning, still.

MATT: Yeah, it's maybe 10:00am.

MARISHA: Take a nap?

MATT: It's across the world, so it's technically earlier.

MARISHA: You know, it's jet lag. It's teleport lag. It gets to you.

LAURA: Maybe Nessa and Zahra have seen him. We could find out. We could use another healer, always.

MATT: It would be 10:00, 10:30 in Whitestone. About 6:30, 7:00 in the morning in Vasselheim.

LAURA: Pike, speaking of clerics, do you want to check in with your temple?

MATT: Pike has actually stayed back in Whitestone to help the refugees.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: Oh. She didn't even come to Vasselheim?

MATT: No, but she did say that she's going to keep an eye, best she can, through Sarenrae. When she can pop in, she'll try and see if she can project her form, going forward.

LIAM: She's led by her conscience.

MATT: She's led by her schedule in New York. (laughs)

TALIESIN: We didn't think to leave her a stone, did we?

MATT: If you'd like to, you could have.

SAM: Would we have done that?

TALIESIN: I would have definitely suggested leaving her with one of the stones.

LAURA: Yeah, we probably should leave the stone with her so she can pop in with us.

MATT: Okay. We'll say that she does that. She keeps a gatestone with her, just in case.

TRAVIS: Trinket stays in Emon, right?

LAURA: Shut up!

TALIESIN: Trinket's going to guard the castle.

LAURA: Trinket is right here, right now! He has been quiet, because he's really well-behaved.

MATT: Trinket's been practicing his stealth. (bear grunts)

LAURA: So stealthy, darling.

MATT: All right, so you've set up your rooms, your stuff about you. You have a full day before seemingly anyone from the Slayer's Take is going to come back. Where do you want to head?

TALIESIN: Individual?

TRAVIS: Individuals? Yeah.

LIAM: Oh, shit, can we buy potions in this city?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

LIAM: Shit! You can't, can you?

LAURA: I'm afraid to start anything. It's 11:00.

MARISHA: I know, it's late.

MATT: All right. Then we will end it there this evening. I just wanted to get an idea of where you guys were going for next week.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

TRAVIS: I plan to go see Earthbreaker Groon.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I want to wait and talk to Zahra.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I may want to have a conversation at the temple of the Raven Queen.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Zahra sounds fun.

LAURA: Right? But I do want to buy potions, as well, and stock up.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that, too.

LIAM: Nothing. I'd probably tag along with Percival.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: Old punchy man? You don't want to come with?

SAM: Oh. Yeah, I'll come watch you if you're going to have a fight.

TRAVIS: No, I'm going to have a conversation.

LIAM: You're right. I do want to see Old Punchy Man.

TALIESIN: We can do both.

TRAVIS: Some hand-to-hand?

SAM: Watch you lose again.

TRAVIS: I'm not fighting him!

MATT: All right, so Vax and Scanlan are going with Grog to the Trial Forge.

LAURA: I'm going to stock up on a bunch of stuff.

MATT: Okay. We'll do some shopping.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go to the temple of the Raven Queen. I also want to talk to our mapmaker friend.

MATT: So you're going to the Raven's Crest. Got it.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: All right, cool. We'll pick it up next week at that point, guys. Awesome. Well done, guys!

TRAVIS: We abandoned Greyskull Keep.

MARISHA: Yeah, we did.

LAURA: Yeah, we did, and it's sad.

MARISHA: It's very sad. We abandoned Emon.

MATT: Damn.

LAURA: We can't help it from there. We have to go somewhere else in order to come back to it.

LIAM: Greyskull Keep is going to be an ancient dragon's kitty litter box.

TRAVIS: I'm allergic to cats.

MARISHA: If you love it, you have to–

MARISHA and LAURA: Let it go.

LIAM: Like our first hometown, or our elven town?

LAURA: Don't say that.

TALIESIN: I was going to say, do you know who says, “if you love it, you have to let it go?” The one who got dumped, that's who! Sorry.

MATT: That's horrible.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you are. I'm a terrible person.

MATT: Well, guys. Thank you so much for watching. We'll pick this up next Thursday. Those we'll see tomorrow in Colorado, looking forward to it, and tomorrow, look for my next episode of GM Tips. That'll be fun, and is it Thursday yet?

TALIESIN: See you in Arizona! 

Part I

MATT: So, last we left off, the party Vox Machina, having recently suffered their main city of Emon and one of their initial towns where they began their adventures in Westruun under attack from an entity called the Chroma Conclave, a collection of allied chromatic dragons, extremely powerful, ancient across the board, it seems, is wreaking havoc across all of Tal'Dorei. They managed to save a few allies, make a few current, tenuous relationships with the Clasp, and moved all of the refugees that they had been keeping within Greyskull Keep to Whitestone to keep them safe for the time being, as that town had seemingly been passed over by the dragons that are still heading east across the continent. After that, the party made their way to Vasselheim. Vasselheim, the distant city known as the Cradle of Faith, the oldest living beacon of civilization in the world that is currently known. After making their way there, the party made their way into the Guild of the Slayer's Take, where they had previously signed on after a trial and are members of, to seek more allies throughout the city of Vasselheim in hopes of preparing themselves to retake Emon, possibly Tal'Dorei at some point in the near future. That is where we left off. As you guys have spent some time resting within the actual– we've got whispers going around over here already, and we haven't started.

MARISHA: Do you want to say?

SAM: No.

MARISHA: No thank you, keep going.

MATT: Okay. Two can play at that game. So, as you guys take a little bit of time, getting reacquainted with the Guild Hall of the Slayer's Take, setting your stuff down that you need to prepare for a short period of time staying in the city or longer if need be. You ran briefly into Mertin Cyndrial, the husband of Vanessa, who's the Huntmaster of the entire Guild, and had a brief conversation with Aldor, who was beating Thorbir at cards.

LAURA: What a dick.

LIAM: Love that guy.

MATT: He's a nice fella.

LAURA: Not Thorbir, he's great.

MATT: There you go. Not very good with dice. So, that being the case, what would you guys like to do at this point in time?

LAURA: I don't know, I'm just asking you guys.

MARISHA: So we slept and we woke up?

MATT: You just arrived now, it's mid-dayish at this point. Early morning to mid-day.

LIAM: Yeah, we slept at the Slayer's Take, we talked to Aldor for a minute, right?

MATT: You haven't slept, you've arrived, it's like morning, mid-day now. You've just situated yourselves in the Guild. You had an evening's rest before you came here. But you have used your 7th-level spell to get here.

MARISHA: Yes. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: So what is the plan?

LIAM: Is there one?

TALIESIN: I'm, at this point, prepared for some decompression of some kind. No one can be expected to move at the speeds we've been moving at for the past week. Perhaps grab an early-morning drink and find out how much news has actually reached this town about what's happening out in the world right now.

LIAM: That's a good idea, Percy.

LAURA: We need to find Lady Kima.

TALIESIN: That's actually an even better idea.

SAM: That's a fantastic idea.

TALIESIN: Perhaps she will go to breakfast.

LAURA: She's at the Temple of Bahamut?

LIAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: That sounds right.

SAM: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

SAM: Can I just remind you, for no other reasons than to be helpful to you in the game and no other reason, that the black powder salesman lives here. Just throwing it out there, you might need some supplies.

TALIESIN: It's interesting, because I sleep at night and these voices from nowhere consistently remind me that there's a black powder merchant in this–

LIAM: What game are you talking about? We don't have time for games, there are dragons that need dealing with.

SAM: You're right. How silly of me.

LIAM: Stick to music, please. We don't need games.

TALIESIN: Kima, I think, is an excellent idea.

SAM: Kima is a great idea.

MATT: Last I heard, Victor was blown apart.

LAURA: We also need– oh.

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: We also need supplies.

SAM: Oh, yes. Hell yes. I don't have anything.

LAURA: We need lots of potions, health potions.

SAM: Yeah, but they sell those here?

LAURA: They sell health potions here. Yeah.

MATT: You've purchased them in the past.

LAURA: Yeah, they sell them here.

MATT: Remember, that's where Grog had his fantastic bartering skills last time to acquire a few potions.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm an investment banker.

LAURA: That's right. Oh, that merchant might be here still. We have so many things to catch up on.

MARISHA: We can also talk to the Slayer's Take as well.

LAURA: We're just waiting for Vanessa and Zahra to get back from their hunt. Am I right?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Who? Oh, the wife?

LIAM: Yeah, Merkel's wife.

MARISHA: I didn't meet Zahra.

LAURA: No, you didn't.

TRAVIS: She's got a tail!

LAURA: She's quite wonderful.

SAM: She's very powerful.

LAURA: She's actually related to– well, Percy, you would know.

SAM: She's related to Percy? I don't see the resemblance.

TALIESIN: No, she's related to Lillith. They actually are, they are related, that is true. Our friend from previously.

LAURA: Yes, our friend. From previously.

TALIESIN: With that, let's find Kima, perhaps. That would be the best course of action.

MATT: So you guys are going to head towards the–

LIAM: Do you think Kima wants to go potion-shopping? Maybe we should go get some shit and then see Kima? I think Kima would be a little impatient.

TALIESIN: That may actually be a good point.

LAURA: All right, all right, all right, all right. Let's go really fast. There's dragons in the world, we don't have time to shop.

TRAVIS: Can you slam down an hourglass for shopping?

LIAM: Sister, dear, how much coin do we have at the moment?

LAURA: Well, not a ton.

LIAM: How many Pop-Tarts do we have?

LAURA: We have a lot of Pop-Tarts, but not very many gold pieces.

LIAM: In the party, if anyone's holding coin, because I don't have much at all. I don't need much, but we do need healing potions.

LAURA: I have enough in the party funds to buy some healing potions, so I think–

TALIESIN: Is that including what we got from my sister?

LAURA: Yes, it is.

TALIESIN: Let's buy some potions.

LIAM: You're in charge, let's go.

MATT: All right, as you guys heads towards the front door of the Slayer's Take Guild Hall, you're but feet from it before the door slams open as the cold winter wind comes pouring in.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's right.

MATT: There, standing in the doorway, you see the outer frame of a strong female form, dark brownish-black leathers, you can see tousled dark hair, piercing pupil-less eyes, and there stands Huntmaster Vanessa, clutching a bag that's seemingly dampened at its base in her right hand as she steps into the main foyer, looking about all of you gathered in the front area. “Well, isn't this a nice surprise in the middle of the morning? Ah.”

LAURA: Welcome back.

MATT: “A pleasure to see you all. Ah, hold on. The rest of you, inside, where it's warmer.” And as she steps inside, you see two individuals step out of the shadows behind her. One of which is another tiefling female, white hair, red in skin, and another individual, familiar to some of you: human, short brown shoulder-length hair, series of scars across his arm, carrying a shield and spear, as Kashaw and Zahra come in to accompany–

TRAVIS: Get your ass in here!

MARY: Look what the bear brought in. Hello, darling.

SAM: Where do I go?

WILL: I'm going to sneak through.

MARY: Hello. Have you gotten bigger?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I've been lifting lots of horses and mules and stuff.

MARY: Oh, my goodness. Hello, darling.

LAURA: Good to see you.

MARY: It's good to see you, too.

LAURA: How are things?

MARY: I'm all right.

TALIESIN: Once you're in, you're stuck.

WILL: Hello.

TALIESIN: Hello.

SAM: You said your name was Ka-SHAW?

WILL: It's KASH-aw.

LAURA: KASH-aw. Like cash. I like it.

MARISHA: Hi.

WILL: How are you?

MARISHA: What are you doing here?

WILL: This is kind of where I live. What are you doing here?

MARISHA: Just, you know, rolling through. Passing by. Not much.

WILL: Okay, who're–?

MARY: Kash, is that–?

WILL: This is her, Z.

LAURA: This is the guy?

MARISHA: Vex, Vex, Vex! Vex, Vex, Vex, Vex, Vex!

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: I push Vex out of the way.

LAURA: (laughs) You called me over to push me.

MARISHA: Yes.

WILL: You're Vex.

LAURA: I am Vex.

WILL: Oh, thank the gods. Yeah, he said you guys looked very similar and thankfully it's not too much, or I felt bad for you.

MARY: Yes, you do look very similar. Does that mean you're–?

LAURA: He's my twin brother.

MARY: It's so lovely to meet you. I whack him with my tail.

LIAM: Oh, jeez!

LAURA: She does that.

LIAM: You are impressive.

WILL: You are a big– I recognize you. Wait a second. I won 75 gold pieces at the Crucible when I bet on Kern the Hammer.

TRAVIS: You did?! That was money well spent, my friend.

WILL: Thank you for that night, by the way.

TRAVIS: You're very welcome. These are my lackeys, I have a band of– you know, wandering–

MARISHA: Lackeys?

LAURA: He doesn't realize that you bet against him.

LIAM: I would not bring– good to see you again– I wouldn't bring that up.

WILL: It was a wonderful fight, did you see it?

TRAVIS: It was, did you see me power-bomb him at the end?

MARY: Hello Percy.

TALIESIN: Lovely to see you again. It's been a complicated month, we'll get into it.

MARY: How are the weapons holding up?

TALIESIN: Quite– well, hmm. Liquefied, but mostly functioning. Hello, I don't think we've met. Percy Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III. And you are?

WILL: Wh-what? Confused. Can you say that again?

TALIESIN: Just call me Percy.

WILL: Okay. Kashaw Vesh.

SAM: Scanlan Shorthalt.

WILL: How are you?

SAM: It's nice to meet you. I've heard many a tale of your wit and bravery.

TALIESIN: That Kashaw, oh! Yes, that one! Yes, of course.

LAURA: We've heard so many things about you, Kash.

WILL: Hopefully all good, thank you.

TRAVIS: (laughs, then coughs)

WILL: Is he choking?

TRAVIS: I'm good.

MARISHA: And you must be Zahra!

MARY: I am. And you are Keyleth, is that right?

MARISHA: That's right, yeah, yeah.

MARY: You are beautiful, aren't you?

MARISHA: (stutters)

MARY: Sorry.

SAM: I told her, I told her.

MARY: Yes.

MATT: At which point, Vanessa groans, staring at this display.

SAM: Oh, sorry.

LAURA: Sorry.

MATT: “I hope this has worked out well for all of you, I however, have a bit of business of ours to finish, okay?”

MARY: Yes, we do.

LIAM: Hey, what's in that bag?

TRAVIS: Yeah, what'd you catch?

MATT: She walks up to the table where Mertin's standing, he reaches out to greet her, with arms extended. She throws it into his arms, he catches it, pulls it open. You see within there is a head of what looks like a humanoid head, but the skin is greyish and featureless. The eyes are whitish and milky. What hair is there, in wisps, is white in color. Who here is trained in arcana?

MARY: I think I am.

SAM: I am.

MATT: You know what this is.

MARY: I already know.

MATT: Roll an arcana check.

LAURA: Why don't we ask you, then?

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21. This is the head of a Doppelganger. This is a creature that spends a lot of its time infiltrating society, being able to take the form and shape of other individuals to assume their position, to take their wealth, to do all sorts of sometimes interesting or dastardly things.

WILL: Made him a bitch to find.

MARY: Yeah.

SAM: It's a shapeshifter?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: What can you do with the head?

MATT: “Well, turn it in for the money it's worth. Spread the change and forget about it.”

TALIESIN: How do you know when you have one?

SAM: That's true.

TRAVIS: And what was it posing as?

TALIESIN: And at that point, don't you just already have one at that point?

MATT: “Well, this is for me to worry about. Not for you to care.”

LAURA: Vanessa, I have a question.

MATT: “Yes, please.”

LAURA: Do you ever hunt creatures just because they're evil and they're killing people?

MATT: “Generally, somebody will eventually be paying for such a creature to be hunted, so I do not feel the necessity to do it, without–”

LAURA: What if lots of people are dying and you might be at risk as well?

MATT: “Then I think it should be very easy to convince someone to pay for it.”

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: What if the cost is the end of the world?

MATT: “Well, I imagine that would be quite a terrible thing.”

MARISHA: Sure. That's what we're looking at here.

MARY: Really?

LAURA: Okay, so. Vasselheim is unaware of what's going on, but a lot of cities have been destroyed.

WILL: Cities. Multiple, cities? Have been destroyed?

LAURA: Multiple cities. Emon was the first one hit.

WILL: It's gone?

LAURA: Well, it's still there technically, just crumbled.

TALIESIN: And flat.

MARISHA: And under rule by an ancient red dragon.

MARY: So much has changed since Lillith was there.

LAURA: So much.

MARY: How did this happen?

LAURA: He escaped. He'd been trapped in the fire plane, and–

TALIESIN: We're not entirely sure what happened, but he escaped the fire plane and somehow created a coalition of chromatic dragons and they are ravaging the countryside.

LAURA: Yes. Which is very strange.

MARY: What color?

WILL: How many?

LAURA: Red, white, green, black, blue was one of them at a time.

MARISHA: They call themselves the Chroma Conclave.

TRAVIS: Eight total.

MARY: The Chroma Concl– there were eight?

LAURA: There's four of them. There's four of them.

MARISHA: No, you're– you don't double them by city. It's just one city– No, never mind. Just one dragon.

TRAVIS: One, three, five, eight.

MATT: Vanessa's crossed her arms and thinks for a second and she goes, “Ah, if what you say is true, this is very unfortunate. And a bit larger than what our simple guild could even hope to really help. This would be something to take to the various temples.”

LAURA: Yes, and we plan on it, but we know that the Slayer's Take is full of very strong, very qualified fighters and we were hoping to have you at our side as well.

MATT: “Well. Let me put it this way. If what you say is true, multiple incredibly powerful ancient dragons roaming, destroying– this is not something you can throw yourself at until eventually one or the other falls. You have to find a weakness, you have to find the way to be on their level. Ask around. See what other allies you can find.”

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: A metallic dragon.

TALIESIN: Temple of Bahamut.

LIAM: What you say is correct. These are the first moments after us finding out, this is a first step. But being members here and seeing what your people can do [no audio] I know this is just a first step, and we're about to enter Vasselheim proper, but–

MARISHA: It should speak pretty loudly that we came to you first. That's how much we trust you.

LIAM: Can we count on you?

MATT: (sighs) “I am Huntmaster of the Slayer's Take. I deal in contracts, I deal in business, I deal in the hunting of relatively unorganized creatures. This– this is beyond me. That is not to say I would not be willing to help, but there are many things to consider first. Perhaps you should speak with Osysa.”

SAM: What, who?

MATT: “Osysa.”

SAM: Osysa?

LIAM: The sphinx.

MATT: “Our patron of Ioun.”

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: “She would have a better mind for this than me, this is…”

LAURA: How do we talk to her?

MATT: “The same way you did last time.”

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: “Follow me.”

MARY: Before we go, I believe we have a little settling-up to do?

WILL: I'm cold and I still haven't been paid.

MATT: “My apologies. Mertin!” He's over there, he's currently putting the head into a small case and closing up and he goes, “Aye, not to worry I'll be more than happy to get this for you.” And he leaves for a second, comes back, goes through the contract, reads a couple things. Pulls out a large chest and begins divvying up coin and throws a satchel to each of you that contains, for both of you divided for this contract that would come to 2,250 gold pieces.

MARY: Pleasure, as always.

SAM: They have more than we do.

LAURA: No, they don't.

MARY: Thank you very much.

MATT: “Of course, that's what I'm here for!”

MARY: It was an interesting challenge, thank you. We had a rather good time with that one.

WILL: Interesting trying to track it down, that's for damn sure.

TRAVIS: What was it hiding as, by the way?

MARY: A plethora of different entities and beings, it was running around town changing at will.

LAURA: Isn't that like that rakshasa you were talking about?

MARISHA: It seems familiar, actually.

WILL: Does sound familiar. That was interesting and bloody!

MARISHA: Yup!

MATT: “Regardless… Shall we? Very well.” And she begins walking further to the back of the guild hall, where you come to the same doorway that you previously entered with her before. The chains in the side, that sets up a large slab that leads to a staircase that leads to the subterranean area right beneath the Slayer's Take. You may have noticed it previously, but there is a structure above where the subterranean area is, behind the Slayer's Take. And it's– it looks like a very simple temple. You haven't really gone into it, but as you step down into this dark area underneath you can see the sconces lighting along with you as you step into this dark cavern. As it opens up once again, you can see the remnants of this hidden temple to Ioun, the Goddess of Knowledge. And what's curious about this temple is Ioun is a goddess of knowledge and openness. One of her main astute pushes is the fact that knowledge is to be shared and spread, so it's curious to see that something of hers is hidden. There's probably a purpose to that. Pushing up the steps again, Vanessa puts her hand up and tells you all to stop and calls out again. “Osysa! I apologize to bother you, but we have a predicament that I believe requires your attention.” As a moment passes, where once again you hear the low, rumbling growl in the shadows. (growls) You hear slams of giant footfalls across stone as what little bit of light torches begin to spark to life around the top of this platform, this stone platform. And at the very top of this staircase that leads to the top of where this platform ends, you can see standing above it a very large female sphinx with a lion body, a female head adorned with golden jewels around the neck, eyes that are light sky blue and white in color. Proud as these giant griffin-like wings stretch out and the entity comes to rest at the top, paws folded over the edge. “Yes, I recall. So what do you need of me?”

LAURA: Well.

TRAVIS: Yeah, go for it, Vex.

LAURA: Your help, potentially. The world is under attack.

MATT: The head sinks for a moment. “I have been watching by the heartstone, naught but this past day I have been keeping tabs in hopes that such a cataclysm would not find its way to my mate. It has not. So. Being aware of this, what do you ask?”

LAURA: Is there anything that you know of that could help us defeat these ancient beings?

MATT: She thinks for a second, steps up and closes her eyes. As her muscles tense, her eyes open again, that color flashing with this luminescent blue color. And her voice falls even deeper into her register, and almost has this monotone informative projection that says: “The Vestiges of Divergence, relics wielded when the gods walked and fought alongside their creations.” The light fades from the eyes, for a second she catches herself and steps back.

MARY: May I ask, what are the Vestiges of Divergence?

MATT: She shakes her head. “I am a channel for this knowledge, but the best I can understand, they are old relics of the War of the Divergence. Leading into the penance, the Second Spark. These were armaments. Objects of great power that were used in these wars against the gods, good and dark. Many have been buried, entombed, lost, forgotten. The few that are recovered are passed on through blood lines, through symbols of power and of seats of great political importance. But the actual information is lost to me.”

LAURA: Do you know of any one in particular?

MATT: She concentrates for a second. “Not within my field of vision. Objects of this powerful enchantment are also prone to want to keep themselves hidden.”

LAURA: That's convenient.

MARISHA: Osysa. If you are aware of this knowledge, then you know that Vasselheim is one of the only remaining cities still left standing. Are there any other services you can offer to help us fight this?

MATT: “The danger that you run here is that Vasselheim has stood the test of time and survived two possible ends of civilization as we know it. But it has survived both of these events because those who guard it stayed to guard it. You may be hard-pressed to convince others to step beyond the walls knowing that such a danger could use that to their advantage and destroy the greatest city that we know of. You are welcome to ask, but it will be a difficult journey. What I can offer, though: my mate is a keeper of much hidden knowledge, over on his side of Tal'Dorei. I may be able to send you to him to seek this information.”

LAURA: Much hidden knowledge?

SAM: About these Vestiges, perhaps?

LAURA: Does he serve your same god? Or another?

MATT: “I am one of the chosen of Ioun. He does not serve her directly.”

LIAM: Information is welcome and we are thankful. And we have been impressed by your wisdom, very much so. The people you employ are chosen very carefully and very well and we all have been impressed. In addition to information, you provide a service with the Slayer's Take to Vasselheim. Do you have any interest in spreading that influence to Emon, if we can save it?

MATT: Her large paws cross once again, and she looks at you with a stern expression. “There is great danger and darkness in this world, and there are many fools who stand up in hopes that they can keep it at bay. If we were to lend our power to you, I would ask that you prove yourselves the ones that could carry this torch.”

LIAM: How so?

MATT: “Perhaps find these relics. Gather other allies. Prove to me that I would not be sending my people to their doom. Then return. Perhaps then, when you think you are ready, we could lend our guild to your service.”

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: And where does your partner reside?

MATT: She closes her eyes and concentrates for a moment. “South of the Frostweald, the mountain range that guards it.” Her eyes open again. “Understand that it is our nature to present challenges. Part of his journey to seek him is to find him yourself. That is the first step.”

MARISHA: Does he have a name?

MATT: “It is his name to give.”

LAURA: One small question, Osysa, I'm sorry.

LIAM: No, no.

LAURA: You serve the goddess of knowledge, of openness.

MATT: And she steps back and you see the crystal sphere, the heartstone that she once helped you look through before to look back at the world, glows beneath framing light under her form. “Yes.”

LAURA: Does that mean you would know anything of the god of secrets: Vecna?

MATT: As you say that name, she snarls. (roars) “It would do you right to not mention that name in this place.”

LAURA: I apologize.

MATT: “Yes, I know of him.”

TALIESIN: His touch has been felt in the north.

LAURA: Very close to here, actually. Would you know of a way to rid ourselves of his weapon, of his tool?

MATT: “If I did, we would have done so long ago. This creature is one of the few entities that shrouds my vision. The limits of our sight, of the things we seek to discover and unveil, are constantly balked by the veil of darkness he throws over the world. He may have been held at bay, many thought destroyed hundreds of years ago, but no, he stays. And he squeezes a stranglehold on everything we seek to accomplish.”

LIAM: Well then, allow us to do you a service. We have had dealings with his underlings. We have knowledge, which we freely give. Freely. If it does anything to help our case, winning your aid. And we will seek your partner and we will find your partner. We're not trying to score points, we are trying to do right. Percival?

MATT: “What do you know?”

TALIESIN: Dark creatures attempted to, as best that we can surmise, open a gate beneath the castle of Whitestone.

MATT: “Whitestone.” She steps back for a second, her eyes flare up with energy again. You can see the heartstone embedded in the floor of the stone glow even brighter and brighter as she puts her paws in the side and peers into it. She begins to mutter beneath her breath. “I can see the snowy north of Tal'Dorei, the castle. Beneath, one of our corrupted temples, forgotten long ago.”

TALIESIN: Your temples?

MATT: “The ziggurats were not of his construction. But he took them.” Her eyes wince for a moment. Her head turns for a minute, her vision and face staring in the distance. “I look out to follow the anger, the swath of death and hatred. Those who took Emon, they draw my gaze. Something is happening.”

LAURA: Right now?

TALIESIN: What do you see?

MATT: “The path to Westruun, eastward.”

LAURA: What's east of Westruun? Who has the map?

MATT: “Parts smoldering and left behind, the path continues over the Lucidian Ocean, eastward beyond the shores of Wildemount.” Her head looks up, still staring off into the distance. “Into the Drimaulth Ravine. I see the floating islands of Draconia falling. Crumbling. Gone. An army sundered. People ruined. The Conclave, sated, returns towards your land once more.” You can see blood pouring out of one of her nostrils now. The light dulls in her eyes and the heartstone fades for a moment. She gathers herself. “I peered too far beyond the veil that contains me, I'm sorry. My (pained grunt)–” She plops down and is breathing a little heavy.

WILL: Can I heal you?

MATT: She takes a few steps down towards you. “Brother Kashaw. It would be appreciated.”

WILL: Puts his hand around the medallion. Closes his eyes. Puts his hand out, touches her.

MATT: “Thank you.” She steps up and bows her head to you. She steps to the top of the temple once again. “I've seen this darkness you speak of under Whitestone, and I shall speak out to our brethren of Ioun in hopes of discovering the nature of this shadow. I'm sorry, I must rest.”

TALIESIN: Of course.

LIAM: We thank you for your time. We are your willing allies.

MATT: “Return when you have proven yourself.”

MARY: We shall.

MATT: “When you think this Conclave could possibly be felled beneath your weapons and might and will.” She whips around the wings (whoosh) as the torches atop the temple flare out and you can see the edge of Osysa's form as she dives into the shadow to the back of the temple. You can hear the impact of giant footfalls against sand and then silence.

LIAM: Zahra.

MARY: Yes?

LIAM: You said, “We shall.” Have we convinced you?

MARY: Knowing that there are four dragons, at least–

LAURA: At least.

MARY: Four to eight dragons, according to Grog, out there. And after our dealings with Rimefang, I cannot let this go. You know I cannot, Kash.

WILL: Z, this is fucking happy fun bunch over here. They bring death with them everywhere they go. This isn't our fight.

MARY: Not all of them.

SAM: I don't kill very much at all.

WILL: Good to know.

TALIESIN: Didn't you kill the king of–?

WILL: Except for kings, all right.

MARISHA: We just had a third-party perspective.

SAM: Yeah, I mean, she gave us a lot to “sphinx” about.

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Wow.

SAM: No? No?

MARY: It's nice to know Burt Reynolds is still around.

MATT: There's a very slow clap echoing into the cavern, as Vanessa goes–

(laughter)

MATT: “And to think, I might have briefly missed you.”

(laughter)

LAURA: We should leave the temple.

SAM: Wait, did Osysa just tell us she could possibly send us to her partner?

LAURA: She told us where he is, and we have to find him.

SAM: Oh, we have to make our way.

WILL: You have to find the no-name guy who's going to help you find the stuff that's hidden that nobody knows where it is.

LAURA: I thought we were finding the stuff that's hidden while we're finding him.

MARY: We will find her mate, he who is not named.

WILL: Well, as long as it's not convoluted.

MARISHA: He is south of the Frostweald, in the mountains.

LAURA: I hate to thay this–

LIAM: Yeth?

MARY: Speak freely.

LAURA: So, these Vestiges are ancient, right? Spread across the land. Wasn't Tiberius looking for a bunch of objects of magic that his people had sent him to find? Perhaps that's the reason Draconia was hit. Maybe they were trying to hide these items.

TALIESIN: It's possible.

SAM: That's a big “what if?”

LIAM: Do you really think the Mending Wheel, though, would help us against Thordak?

MARISHA: I feel like we'll know if it's an ancient Vestige of Divergence.

TALIESIN: This is good. This is a path for us to walk.

MARY: So, Draconia is gone. Is that my understanding?

TALIESIN: Well, most likely, yes.

MARY: What else is left?

LAURA: Vasselheim. Whitestone.

MARISHA: Zahra, Kash?

LAURA: Potentially Syngorn, even though it's hidden.

MARY: Well, we can either stay here or we can–

LIAM: They're opting out of the conversation.

MARISHA: Have either of you been near Pyrah, in the mountains east of here? Have any of you been where the Fire Ashari reside?

MARY: I have not.

WILL: No.

TALIESIN: Going to have to make our way there, eventually.

SAM: A lot to do.

LAURA: It's a lot to do.

SAM: Maybe we should split up into eight groups.

TALIESIN: Actually, 11 groups.

MARY: That would be 12.

LAURA: How many is that, Grog?

TRAVIS: Four.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Do we know how far away the Frostweald is from here?

MATT: The Frostweald is back in–

LAURA: By Westruun.

MATT: South of Westruun.

MARISHA: Like where we started, right? In Stillben.

MATT: That was where you got the heart of the nymph.

MARISHA: That's not far from the Air Ashari, correct?

LIAM: Do you think she's still there, Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, trust me. When you have Grog– you never leave?

LIAM: Yeah, that's the expression, I'm pretty sure that's the expression.

LAURA: We need to find Kima, we need to go to the Temple of Bahamut.

SAM: Yes, you're right, yes.

LAURA: Talk to people that are capable of helping us.

LIAM: We need Kima. Potions first. I don't want to bore Kima, then Kima. Yes?

LAURA: Hey, does the Slayer's Take have potions we can just have? Don't they have like a supply room?

LIAM: It would be welcome.

MATT: “We have things we can provide, as you are members.”

LAURA: Oh good, yes.

MATT: “Mind you, not extremely active members as of late, but…”

LAURA: But we will be. Think about the giant amount of claws and teeth and eyeballs and leather wings and scales.

LIAM: We're about to get really fucking active.

LAURA: We're going to be so fucking rich.

MARY: Think of the armor I could forge you from red dragon parts.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: Can I give advantage if I go like this the whole time?

MATT: No. That's closer to disadvantage.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, how about 12?

MATT: “Yes, I'll provide you with what we can. Come with me.”

MARISHA: Aw, she likes us.

LAURA: No, I could have gotten something really badass if I had rolled better.

MATT: So, you guys step up and you lead back to the Slayer's Take guildhall. She snaps at Mertin, whispers something in his ear, and he comes and offers a small chest to you guys that contains two potions of healing and one potion of greater healing.

LAURA: Oh good, two potions! Vanessa–

LIAM: It's welcome, it's very welcome. Which way is the potion shop from here?

MATT: “Go to the Quadroads.”

SAM: Quadroads, of course.

LIAM: Yeah, we haven't been here–

LAURA: In quite a while–

TALIESIN: As you know.

MATT: “I'm afraid your symbols have been getting dusty.”

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Hm?

LAURA: You don't have any potions left?

TRAVIS: No, I've got like, three potions.

LAURA: Who doesn't have any potions?

SAM: None.

LIAM: None.

MARISHA: Yeah, I have a couple.

LIAM: Hey, I'm squishy as hell, can I have one?

LAURA: You get the greater one. You get one, and you get one.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARY: May I speak with Vanessa very quickly?

MATT: “Zahra, what can I do for you?”

MARY: Kash, come with.

WILL: Kash walks over with her.

MARY: Vanessa, we've done many jobs together. And I think we've been very loyal to you. We've brought in a lot of money for you. My only request is, is there anything extra? Are there any spare potions, any amulets of protection, anything? You know this is going to come to us.

MATT: “And there is a lot of great money that you've made that could pay for these things.”

LIAM: (whispers) But her voice is so deep!

MATT: “I've given you already more than I needed to. You can afford it. If you were broke and asking me, maybe I'd be happy to ask, but I just paid you quite a sum of money.”

MARY: I know you did.

MATT: “I feel like I'm being taken advantage of.”

WILL: That's not what we mean, you know that, come on. Just give us free stuff.

(laughter)

MARY: I meant no offense whatsoever. I mean you no offense.

MATT: “And none is taken. However, I would say, there is business to be had deeper in the city. You wish potions, there are those that purchase them. I've already given you what I have and what you've earned.”

MARY: And we thank you for that.

MATT: “Very well.”

LAURA: Thank you, Vanessa.

LIAM: Vanessa, hey. I'm not asking anything. We're going to get you into Emon. That's a promise.

MATT: “I look forward to you coming back and proving me wrong.”

LIAM: We're going to double your fucking business.

LAURA: Mm, we're going to bring you so many scales. You just wait.

MATT: (deadpan) “I've never heard this before.”

(laughter)

MATT: “I've never been disappointed by it, either. In all sincerity…”

SAM: “… leave.”

(laughter)

MATT: “The gnome speaks because I do not have to. But good luck, and don't stray too far. Stay safe, please? I put a lot of faith in you.”

SAM: All right, to the potion shop. To the Quadroads.

LAURA: Wait, oh, wait! One thing. I know we're going.

LIAM: Mirrors.

MARY: (laughs) No! (clears her throat)

SAM: I attempt to read lips.

LAURA: Is Lyra around? Anywhere?

MATT: As you say that, you hear a voice in the back of the room go, “What, is she?!” You see Aldor in the back table, he's already up with his bag, ready to run.

(laughter)

MATT: “Aldor, sit down, it's okay. Ah, not at the moment, she's currently helping her uncle.”

LAURA: At the place where he is.

LIAM: In town?

SAM: The place where we got a lot of stuff.

MARY: We got the horses last time.

MATT: “He's the ambassador.”

LAURA: Cool. Thank you.

WILL: As they're leaving, can Kash pull Zahra aside really quickly? Are you going with them? Seriously?

MARY: What do you want to do, do you want to stay here while the world burns?

WILL: Yes.

MARY: Why?

WILL: Because we're here. It's warm, we make money.

MARY: Not if nothing's left to protect. Not if there are no monsters left. If these things get out, if they spread their fire across the globe, what's left for us?

WILL: If, if, if. If any of the monsters we miss went out and spread– the world's always ending, baby!

MARY: They just took out Draconia, darling. All of it. Gone.

WILL: I'll follow you. Anywhere. You know that.

MARY: I know. And I'll follow you.

WILL: Tell me what you want to do and I'm there.

MARY: For a while.

WILL: Let's go.

MARY: If we don't like it, we'll leave. If we find something better.

WILL: We'll leave. Okay. Leave half the gold here. They don't need to know everything that we have.

MARY: Fuck that.

WILL: All right.

MARY: We might need it.

WILL: Then hide half the gold. I don't trust the twins as far as I can throw them.

LAURA: I can read your fucking lips.

WILL: Apparently she reads lips.

(laughter)

MARY: Oh yes, I'd forgotten that. All right. She knows how much we have. We're going for a while.

WILL: Was I wrong, by the way? Did you see how hot Keyleth is?

MARY: She's fucking hot.

WILL: That's what I'm saying. Let's go, we should go.

LIAM: We're so nice!

LAURA: We're so nice!

LIAM: What the fuck is that about?!

MATT: All right, so you guys head out of the Slayer's Take guildhall into Vasselheim, which is now a little more bustling than it was when you arrived. It's about midday. The sun is still not visible. There's enough cloud cover where you can see where it would be in the sky, but it's still pretty grey. No rain, and there is still relatively recent snow that covers most of the city streets, some of which has been pushed to the sides to make walkways easier. It's been snowing here in the winter rather often, as you two are both very aware. You have multiple things you want: the potion shop, there's the Platinum Sanctuary, I think last time you mentioned the Trial Forge.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: What do you guys want to do?

LAURA: Potions first.

MATT: All right. So you make your way to the Quadroads.

LAURA: Can I pull him aside as we're walking there?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: And ask, so, I thought you were interested in Keyleth. Am I wrong? I mean, you're interested in Keyleth. Right? I mean, I know you don't want to tell me. I know you don't tell me anything like this, but– is it weird that he's here?

LIAM: No, he's fine. And I am.

LAURA: Okay. Should I take him out?

LIAM: No!

LAURA: Because I can.

LIAM: No, he's–

LAURA: Destroy him.

LIAM: He's useful. And I don't hold anything against him, and she's– why wouldn't he want her? Of course he does.

LAURA: Yes, yes, yes, Keyleth is so! Fucking! Beautiful! I get it.

LIAM: Well, so are you, but what the fuck am I going to do with that? Jeez, you're fucking weird. And I walk off.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Now we're getting somewhere.

MATT: Coming back to the center of the Quadroads, you guys have been here before. This is where the center of the city's trade happens. Imagine the central Abdar's Promenade of Emon, as it once was, but condensed. And it is just hovels and tents and all these open shops that are crammed in this heavy space. It looks like the– what's it, from “Hellboy II”–

WILL: Underground mall. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: Wall to wall buildings, but people, not weird creatures. People shouting, people are– get some proper audio for this, one second.

LAURA: Fresh fish!

MARY: Fresh fish!

MATT: Exactly. So as you guys are walking around, you eventually find your way up to the same area where you found the potions from before. You can see him there, he's wearing an open red vest that falls to the ground behind him, arms are revealed, he has these thick bracers on that are really finely scrolled with brass. He's got a fine Van Dyke beard going on now. He's currently speaking with someone off to the side. “Yes, of course, I'm more than happy to, yes. You! I remember you. Oh, it's been quite some time–”

LAURA: You!

MATT: “Step on over here, sir, I would love having more–”

LAURA: I push Grog out of the way.

TRAVIS: What, hey! What?

LAURA: You.

MATT: “Yes, can I help you?”

LAURA: You sneaky mother– Is he the one?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Is he the one haggled with you? The one you traded all of our–?

TRAVIS: I got a really great deal!

MATT: “He got a fantastic deal the last time. He's a grade A customer. I'm sorry, is there a problem?”

TRAVIS: Nope, no problem at all, you'll be doing business with me.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Sit back, love, and watch a pro work.

MARY: Have we all walked into the store?

LAURA: He's a cart– he's a stupid cart salesman.

TALIESIN: We're all going to learn something very valuable right now.

TRAVIS: I don't know if you've noticed, but these twats below me need healing potions. Mm, whatever. Do you have anything like that on you?

MATT: “Hoo, hoo, hoo, do I? Do not worry, sir. Hold on just a moment.” He disappears into the small tent opening behind him.

LAURA: Keyleth, Hold Person or something to shut him up!

LIAM: Yeah, I mean, it's funny, but we don't have that much gold.

LAURA: We don't have anything.

TRAVIS: (calls out) I've got 6,500 gold to spend and I mean to spend quite a bit of it.

MATT: “Music to my ears!” You hear from inside the tent, as he comes out with this long, very well-carved wooden– looks like a test tube set, almost. There are all various potions of different sizes and colors. He sets it down. “So, potions of healing, you say.” He pulls out a few of them. “This here I have, two superior healing potions…”

SAM: Ooh, nice.

MATT: “Three greater healing potions and ten regular potions of healing, at your disposal, should you require them. Mm, yes.”

LIAM: Grog, what about this? You are really strong and really good at killing things and my left– left? Yeah. Nut still has a dent in it. You are really fucking strong.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: You are the best there is at what you do.

MATT: “And by far a handsome and intelligent salesman.”

LIAM: Please shut up. My sister is very good at– do you know what math is?

TRAVIS: Mathis?

(laughter)

LIAM: Vex'ahlia is very good at–

LAURA: I don't even want to deal with this dick now!

LIAM: She is an excellent shopper. I'm telling you, you know how you take things' skulls and turn them into like raspberry jam?

TRAVIS: Yeah, like a paste.

LIAM: Yeah, that's what she does with money. And I'm saying, we've had our differences, and I know you're stronger than me and I'm saying as strong as you are, that's as good as she is with shiny.

MATT: “And yet she was so abrasive when she arrived.”

LIAM: I say, shut up!

MATT: “Fine, hmph!”

LAURA: Darling. You're lucky I don't– Trinket? Have you seen my pet bear?

MATT: Trinket stumbles inside.

LAURA: Quite adorable. He loves potion salesmen.

TRAVIS: You know, I'm not sure if you're aware of this, but I'm actually the current reigning champion of the Crucible. And with that title comes many things, like people that manage your shinies. I would like to introduce you to my shiny manager, Vex.

MATT: “This one, really?”

WILL: Why was he holding your nut?

LAURA: (laughs) No pressure now–

LIAM: It was a little bit of pressure.

TRAVIS: I didn't really hold it, it was like a flick.

MARY: A flick?

LAURA: Look, I'm willing to trade you some very powerful magical items for some schmeasley little potions that heal people.

MATT: “How many would you like? What do you want?”

LAURA: I want them all. How much?

MATT: “All of them?”

LIAM: Bulk.

MATT: (chuckles) “Well, then. Let me do my math here.” He looks through it. “All right, um…”

WILL: By the way, as you're adding that up, I'd like to say you should tread lightly or I'm going to tell Vanessa and you'll have trouble getting anything from the Take ever again.

MATT: “The Take? Are you with the Take?”

LAURA: Oh! Do you not see these– These amazing–

MARISHA: That's right, we get union discounts.

MATT: “Yes, there is indeed a discount with the Take (nervous laugh). They've been great representatives in the past, yes.”

LAURA: I like you more and more, Kashaw, every time you speak.

WILL: Most people do. Ask Keyleth.

MARISHA: (nervous laughter) What?

MATT: “With friendship discount, let me total this up a bit here.”

MARY: I walk outside, and I–

MATT: “That will be 6,500 gold pieces for the lot.”

LAURA: I'm sorry, how much?

MATT: “6,500 gold pieces for the lot, with the discount.”

LAURA: Right.

SAM: So coincidental. That's exactly what Grog offered.

TRAVIS: That's what I have!

LAURA: How about, instead of that, I trade you–

TRAVIS: (loud whisper) 7,000!

LAURA: Thank you, Grog.

LIAM: (whispers) Stick to the killing!

LAURA: These magical items. And I pull out the knickknacks that I took from I don't fucking know where. It's knickknacks. But they're magic.

TALIESIN: Is knickknack a candy bar?

SAM: Vex, no. You can't, you can't possibly trade that. It's too valuable. What are you doing?

LAURA: Well, I know, but where else are we going to find a vendor–?

SAM: Those are the Knickknacks of Kaa.

LAURA: I know, and they're quite valuable. But he said six thousand, six hundred and (mumbles) and we know this will cover that.

SAM: I can't. Please sir, please don't take advantage of us by taking these things from us. They're too valuable, please, I beg of you.

TALIESIN: What have you pulled out?

SAM: The Knickknacks of Kaa.

TALIESIN: The Knickknacks of Kaa?! No, not the Knickknacks of Kaa!

LAURA: (worried sigh) Now I'm doubting– No, you know what, maybe I shouldn't trade these.

LIAM: Put them away, put them away.

MATT: Make a deception check. Make a deception check. I would say, you know, if you wanted to–

SAM: Am I assisting?

MATT: You can assist on this, yeah.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's good!

MARY: I'll take some too, as well.

LAURA: What is the assist?

MATT: That gives you advantage on the roll.

SAM: Oh wait, I don't get to roll?

MATT: Huh?

SAM: I don't get to roll anything?

MATT: No, it just gives her advantage.

LAURA: 27.

SAM: (sighs) Oh, that's good.

TALIESIN: That was a really good roll.

WILL: (laughs) That was good.

MATT: He goes, “No, no, no, no. Put them on the table, please. I would like to have a look. Just in casies.”

LAURA: I'll put one of them down so you can look.

MARISHA: As she places it down, can I do a little Gust cantrip and do a little poof of air?

MATT: Sure. Make a sleight of hand check.

MARISHA: Fuck.

LAURA: Aw, man. All the time, Keyleth!

MARISHA: I know. Oh, that's good though, that's good. I'm good, I'm good. Hang on, let me make sure, make a sleight of hand–18.

MATT: 18? Okay. As you sit down (poof), this little like– all the dust on the front, a little of the dampness is (poof).

LAURA: I take my hand away, trembling, like I don't want to give it up.

MATT: “Hmm.” He pulls out a little glass eyepiece, inspects. “The craftsmanship is decent.”

MARY: And as he's doing this, I cast Thaumaturgy and cause the table to start vibrating.

MATT: What are the components on that?

MARY: It says I can cause minor tremors.

MATT: On the spell. What does it say under components?

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Knickknacks.

LAURA: Knickknacks is probably the components.

WILL: Components is “V.”

MATT: Visual. Yeah, you don't have to actually do anything to it. It just happens.

SAM: Why did you even–

WILL: Why not, is the question I want to ask.

TALIESIN: Really quickly, while the Thaumaturgy is happening, I'm going to cast Minor Illusion, just go for it.

LAURA: What is happening right now?!

MARISHA: We're stacking the deck, man. We're stacking it.

SAM: Any one of these could fail.

MARISHA: If they all succeed, it's going to be dope.

TALIESIN: I'm going to make a– the image of a beautiful woman briefly appear in the reflection of the object and then vanish. Just a gleam.

MARISHA: That's hot. That's hot.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: You need to make a sleight of hand check.

TALIESIN: I need to make a sleight of hand check?

LAURA: Don't you fucking fail at this.

LIAM: Roll that Snitch!

LAURA: Natural 20.

TALIESIN: No, but it is a 19.

LIAM: Yeah, gang.

MATT: Okay. So you set down which one of the knickknacks now?

LAURA: Just one of them.

MATT: Which one?

LAURA: Are you asking me as Matt?

MATT: These things that you pulled out of the–

WILL: She puts down knick and holds knack.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: You literally said I gathered up a bunch of knickknacks worth 750 gold.

MATT: Oh, from that. I'm sorry.

(laughter)

MATT: I thought you were talking about the tea set and the dominoes.

LAURA: No, no, no, literally shitty-ass knickknacks.

MATT: Got you.

MARISHA: No, we wouldn't be handing that shit over.

MATT: I'm sorry, I misunderstood.

LIAM: This is like matryoshka nesting dolls.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Faberge eggs.

MATT: So what this is, it's like a really, really intricate inkwell that has been made out of gold and bronze. It's stuff you find in a SkyMall, essentially.

SAM: The Pocket Fisherman!

TALIESIN: This is Sting, from Lord of the Rings.

MARY: The One Ring to rule them all.

LIAM: That bass is singing!

MATT: All right, so. As the gust of wind fades, the table begins to shake, and he glances in across the outside of this inkwell amongst a bunch of other random knickknacks scattered around it. He looks at it for a second, this flash in his eyes. He goes, “Hmm. They seem fair enough. I would say, include these in the transaction, I would be willing to drop the cost by about 500 gold pieces? An even 6,000.”

LAURA: Darling. I snatch it away and say, do you have any idea how much these are worth?

MATT: “I do, actually, I'm quite the appraiser. It's part of my business.”

LAURA: I know when somebody's trying to swindle me, darling.

MATT: “Well then, step away. You don't need my business, obviously. Is this how your 'Shiny Manager' deals with your shinies? Or would you wish to deal with this face to face?”

LAURA: Tell you what. Take two thousand off your asking price and we have a deal.

MATT: “That is ridiculous! No.”

WILL: How's your family?

MATT: “What does that mean?”

WILL: Just curious how everybody's doing? Everybody healthy, happy?

TRAVIS: Yeah, are they well? In one piece?

MARY: Have you seen your wife?

MATT: Make an intimidation check. (laughing) With advantage because she's helping.

(laughter)

WILL: Is that a 20?

MATT: Roll a d20 twice and take the higher of the two. Add your intimidation.

TALIESIN: Roll again.

WILL: 19.

TALIESIN: Yay! Wait, wait, no. What's your–?

WILL: Plus intimi– 18.

SAM: Negative one intimidation.

WILL: He's a human cleric, I'm doing my best.

LIAM: Laughter during a game, what a novelty!

MATT: “Um. They're fine. Uh, quite fine. Yes. A thousand gold? Off the asking price?”

LAURA: Two thousand gold off the asking price.

MATT: “That– that's ridiculous. It's not even– what are you–”

WILL: Have you heard him talk about paste?

MATT: “I– 1,300 off the asking price. Nothing more.”

LIAM: I take one of my daggers.

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

LIAM: And looking at him, I stick it in Grog's arm and I drag it down and I never take my eyes off him.

TRAVIS: Neither do I.

TALIESIN: He has a lip collection.

MATT: He's looking, like, over you guys now, towards the thoroughfare.

LAURA: Looking for guards.

MATT: “Ah, um. Perhaps, uh–”

TRAVIS: Keep your voice down.

MATT: “I would need…”

LIAM: There's no magic here, friend.

MATT: “Um.”

LAURA: Fifteen hundred off the asking price.

TALIESIN: Seems fair.

SAM: That seems fair.

WILL: Completely fair.

MATT: “Five thousand gold, knickknacks and ah, we're all good? Yes?”

LAURA: Yes. Five thousand gold.

MATT: “All right, here you are. Please now, it would be wondrous after we complete this transaction that we never meet again.”

LAURA: Oh dear. I'm afraid I've already Hunter's Marked you.

MATT: “I don't even know what that means.”

(laughter)

MATT: There's a person waiting behind you. “Um, excuse me–” “We're closed!”

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, right, of course, let me count up this little amount right here.

SAM: Kash, Zahra, you should probably contribute.

LAURA: No, that's all right, dear. Five thousand gold.

MATT: “Thank you.”

LAURA: Oh, and here, these very valuable–

MATT: “Good day! Good day.”

WILL: It's been a pleasure.

MARISHA: I Druidcraft a little tulip and give it to her.

MATT: To him?

MARISHA: Him.

WILL: Her now.

MARY: Her now. Kash does have an effect, doesn't he?

MARISHA: Debateable.

MATT: He takes it, confused, and goes–

LAURA: Wait, what potions did we just take?

MATT: You grab the potions that are on the table that he pushed towards you. There is one superior healing–

LAURA: You said there was two superior.

TRAVIS: One superior, two greater, and ten–

MATT: Yes. One superior, two greater, ten regular.

LAURA: That's a good amount.

MARISHA: That's pretty good. I didn't realize there was ten in there.

LAURA: Yeah, it's a lot. Okay, cool.

TALIESIN: And we only had to threaten a shopkeeper with bodily harm to get it.

WILL: I was gonna say, it was the first time I've ever intimidated anybody in my life. It was fun.

(laughter)

WILL: That was fun, I have to admit.

LAURA: You guys– I'm sorry, but we make a pretty good team.

WILL: That wasn't bad. I could get used to that.

TRAVIS: Not that it's like, not for nothing, will you take this fucking dagger out of my arm?

MARISHA: Does this mean we're a terrible influence?

LAURA: I cast Cure Wounds on Grog.

TALIESIN: It means you're a good influence or we're a terrible influence on you.

MATT: It would only have been like two points of damage to you, so that would have healed up fine.

SAM: Vex.

LAURA: Yeah?

SAM: He said two superior.

LAURA: He did say two superior. I knew he said two superior! Matt!

MARISHA: Oh, look at that, look at that, look at that!

LAURA: I chase after him.

SAM: I'm coming too.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: No! No! No?

MATT: So you come into the tent after him?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: No, no, it's brilliant. Let it play. Let it play.

LAURA: Actually, dear. Dear? I believe you left one of your potions off the table.

MATT: He turns around. “The superior potions are five thousand gold apiece, baseline.”

LAURA: But you said you had two superior and you said all the potions for the amount we said.

MATT: “I said all the ones I placed on the table before you.”

LIAM: Ah, there's so much blood on this fucking dagger. Ugh.

LAURA: Are you going back on your word?

MATT: “You've made a grand deal with what we said. If you continue to push this, I'm afraid I'm going to have to get the guards.”

LAURA: Eh. Superior's a superior.

WILL: My guess is he couldn't get to the front of the tent by the time we got to him. But that's up to you. We're just guests here.

LAURA: No, it's all right. I know they're expensive. And we've already taken enough advantage.

TRAVIS: Yeah, if they're what they say they are.

LAURA: No!

TRAVIS: That's what I'd do.

LIAM: Cross your fingers.

LAURA: Can I sniff and make sure it's actually a real potion that he gave us? Did he give us fucking fake potions?

MATT: You can go back and take a moment and sniff, yeah. Go ahead and make a perception check.

LAURA: Is it like watered-down gasoline?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: You take it and uncork and sniff. Yeah, it's a very familiar pungent herbal smell of–

WILL: Watered-down gasoline.

MATT: Yeah.

(laughter)

LAURA: Fine. Okay.

TALIESIN: You did very well and there are other things that we should think about purchasing.

LAURA: You're right, you're right, you're right.

SAM: That lady was the worst.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That lady's the worst.

MARY: Do you need to get gunpowder?

TALIESIN: I could use a bit of a top-up just because who knows when the next time we're going to be in this direction.

SAM: To a pub?

MARY: No, let's go to the gunpowder. Let's get you some.

TALIESIN: And perhaps, considering that we're going to be very mobile, a map would not be the worst purchase.

LAURA: I thought we have a good map of the world.

MATT: You have a fair map of Tal'Dorei and you have what is a basic layout of the continents.

TALIESIN: Don't we have a mapmaker?

MARISHA: We do have a mapmaker. Wasn't he here? Or was he in Emon?

MATT: You met Tyriok here.

MARISHA: Tyriok, yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: Though you haven't seen him. He mentioned to you previously he's currently traveling to finish his–

MARISHA: Yeah, that's right. We caught him in the tavern, correct?

MATT: Yes.

MARY: Don't you think the Slayer's Take– should I run back and talk to Vanessa?

WILL: Vanessa has to have maps somewhere.

MARY: She's got to have one somewhere. You need a basic map of Vasselheim, is that what you're speaking of?

TALIESIN: It would not be a terrible thing to have, considering we're going to be traveling.

MARISHA: Of Vasselheim? Or of–?

SAM: The world.

MATT: Othanzia is the larger country set around. The continent is Issylra. Issylra is a very large continent. It's almost the equivalent of Asia and Russia, like that whole– it's very wide and a lot of it is wild and untamed land and wilderness.

TALIESIN: Let me top up a bit on what I need.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: I'll need you as well because you hold the purse strings.

LIAM: Who's got the potions?

MATT: Hmm?

LIAM: Who's got the potions?

LAURA: I have the potions.

SAM: Can I divvy those out, please?

LIAM: Ah, I'm so fast, but I'm really weak. Can I have another one?

LAURA: I already gave you a greater.

LIAM: I know you did. But I get fucked up really easily. Could I have another one?

LAURA: I give– wait, how many people are there? Eight of us.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: So there was a few regulars, yeah?

LIAM: Just another, one more.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll give you two normies.

LIAM: Thank you.

LAURA: And everybody else gets a normie as well.

TALIESIN: I'll take a normie.

WILL: Thank you.

SAM: Who gets the supe? And the great?

LAURA: Who's our weakest?

SAM: (clears throat)

LAURA: Yeah, you're pretty weak. Take a greater, Scanlan.

SAM: Yes!

TALIESIN: The two poor decision makers, I imagine.

LIAM: What's that, Smoke Man?

LAURA: Grog, do you want the other greater? Yeah, take the other greater. And then I have one superior. How many hit points does a superior heal?

MATT: A superior heals 8d4 plus eight.

LIAM: That's low.

LAURA: That's not that many. It's 5,000 gold?

MARISHA: Yeah, no. No, healing potions are generally a rip off.

LAURA: What a waste.

MARISHA: I know.

MATT: Oh my god! I just buy healing to save my life! Such a waste!

(laughter)

MATT: Oh my god, there's like a whole trade of really talented magical practitioners that spend their time crafting and brewing up these potions in the hopes they can save your life in the future.

LIAM: What's this character called? What's this character called?

MARISHA: It's true, I did buy a book to learn alchemy, and I just haven't had time to do it.

MARY: It's a great read, trust me.

MARISHA: The alchemy book? Yes?

TRAVIS: Are we fucking buying anything else or what are we doing now?

LAURA: Black powder.

LIAM: He needs the Bang Bang Man.

TALIESIN: Let's go get some powder. Let's get some black powder and whatever else we might–

MARY: Boomstick needs the bang.

SAM: While they're buying powder, I'm going to go get a fucking drink somewhere.

TRAVIS: Ooh! Yeah!

TALIESIN: We'll meet you at the pub.

MARISHA: I'll go with Scanlan and Grog.

WILL: I'm going to go to the pub as well.

LAURA: I'm going with Percy. Go get a drink.

WILL: Okay, I'm going to go to the pub.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you are, you bad, intimidating motherfucker!

SAM: The Abundant Terrace area.

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: Okay. Are you coming to the pub?

LIAM: No, I'm going to help– no, I'll see you in a bit.

WILL: I'll take care of her. We'll be fine. Don't worry about it.

SAM: Dagon is the owner.

MATT: Correct, yes. The two taverns you've been to is that of the Bellows' Respite Inn, which is in the Braving Grounds. So yeah, you can go to either one of those.

SAM: Oh. Grog, would you rather go to the one near the Braving Grounds?

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure.

SAM: Or this one?

MATT: Up to you.

LAURA: Don't start any fights, we have a dragon to kill.

TRAVIS: Come on, shot-caller, pick one.

SAM: Yeah, whatever's closer.

MATT: Closer would be the Bellows' Respite, that's also where the Crucible was, the one that was on the outside of it.

SAM: Let's go.

WILL: Better ale.

MARISHA: Old stomping grounds, Grog.

MATT: So you guys go get drinks. Who's going–?

TALIESIN: Vex and I are going and– are you coming as well?

MARY: How far are we from the Slayer's Take, and is there any other place in town that I personally would know of from being here about three months, to find a map?

MATT: You can go back and ask the Slayer's Take. They have basic maps of the nearby countryside. A lot of the contracts require you to travel across this side of Othanzia. You go back and you talk to Vanessa and you procure one of the maps there that are usually supplied for one of your missions.

MARY: All right, and then I'm going to the bar to get a fucking drink.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: All right, so most of them are drinking. Vex and Percival head– you guys are all heading actually in the same area, to the Braving Grounds outside the Trial Forge, since that's where the bar is and that's also where Victor's little powder-covered hovel is.

LIAM: Bring him out. Bring him out!

MATT: So (laughs) as you approach the same area, you can see that the building is the same as it was before, other than it's missing half a roof.

TALIESIN: He might be a bit low on powder.

MATT: It appears to be haphazardly covered with a series of boards that were nailed to keep things closed, but there is definitely, with the snow and the rain, it's probably not the best place to be staying or living.

TALIESIN: I'm going to remove my coat. As I've learned.

LAURA: Yes?

TALIESIN: Do we have Trinket with us?

LAURA: Yes, of course.

TALIESIN: I'm going to put my coat on Trinket for a moment, just to keep it clean.

LAURA: A walking coat rack, that's what Trinket is.

LIAM: Percy, that's not a good idea.

MATT: Trinket's trying to get the coat off.

TALIESIN: Thank you, Trinket (knocking). Hello?

MATT: Some movement, and you hear the shattering of glass and you hear a (frustrated noise).

TALIESIN: Victor, are you in there?

MATT: “Just a moment!” Suddenly the door, whoosh!, slams open and before you, you see Victor, half covered in soot, has a big old thick pair of glasses on his face, one of which is cracked. You can see his chin now has this puffed out, partially burnt and curled bit of a goatee at the very tip of his chin. He looks up at you with these giant eyes that are projected and magnified by his eyewear. “Can I help you?!”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Yes, it's Percival. Do you remember me?

MATT: “No!”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Excellent.

MATT: “Is that all?!”

TALIESIN: I was hoping to procure some black powder again. We had a– we made a deal last time–

MATT: “Yes, yes, come in, please come in!”

TALIESIN: Do I have to? Okay.

MATT: He turns around and heads back inside.

LAURA: I'm going to stand out here.

TALIESIN: That's quite wise. Please keep my jacket clean.

MATT: As you enter, indeed, a good half of the roof is missing and you see now a lot of things have been moved away because currently there is a pile of burnt and destroyed wood splinters that are also soaked through, and there's a little bit of mold and rotten mildew that has gathered in that far corner as well, from the weather.

LIAM: I'm going to stand over here and fail to stay in character, okay?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You should roll for that. You're looking well.

MATT: “Heh, heh! Mostly.” He turns around and you can see now, what you failed to notice when you first started this is where once there was five, there is now three fingers.

MARISHA: Yes, he has character progression!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's impressive.

MATT: “Learn from my mistakes!”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You can learn three more times, easily.

MATT: “I can. Three, four– yes!” He runs off and starts rummaging through a bunch of stuff.

TALIESIN: Victor, I was hoping you would have some black powder for sale.

MATT: “I'm on it, I'm on it! Hold on!” He whips around with this metallic cylinder that is very well sealed. “See, I learn from my mistakes!”

TALIESIN: That's very impressive. Oh–

MATT: He walks very carefully, very gingerly placing it on the table. “Okay. Carefully.” He pulls out (fwoosh) a small torch. “I have to unseal the metal.”

TALIESIN: Let's not do that! And I make a quick… I'm going to try and bap the thing down as quickly as I can.

MATT: Okay. You smack it out of his hand.

TALIESIN: Let's… I trust you implicitly.

MATT: “Heh heh heh heh. It's coffee.”

(laughter)

MATT: “Black powder.” (cackles)

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I think you've had enough. I'm going to smell the coffee. It's really coffee?

MATT: Yeah. “Sorry, trying to host. It's been a while since I've had a guest. Would you like some?”

TALIESIN: Just one spoonful would be quite–

MATT: He goes over to a small kettle and begins straining it through. He's got this little coffee brew on the side. “So, real black powder. Wait! I do know you.”

TALIESIN: Yes!

MATT: “You've purchased before.”

TALIESIN: I have.

MATT: “Return customer. Not many of those.”

TALIESIN: Not many? Have there been others?

MATT: He pours a couple of cups for you, pulls it over to you. “Oh, one. Months ago.”

TALIESIN: Really? Who would–?

MATT: “Nice woman. Young, good outfit, well dressed, heh.”

TALIESIN: Excellent. She didn't happen to say where she was going, did she? By any chance?

MATT: “No, no. Weeks, not months. Time– strange.”

TALIESIN: Weeks? Very good to know. Thank you, that's so helpful. Did you talk about anything else with this nice young woman, at all?

MATT: “No! She paid well!”

TALIESIN: I'm sure she did.

MATT: “Kept her distance.”

TALIESIN: I'm sure she did as well.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's– I'm curious, how have your own experiments been going? Going well?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You should get that looked at some point. Three more, three more.

MATT: “Three.”

LAURA: Percival?

TALIESIN: Yes! So any black powder that you have, I would be happy to–

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: Help you pay for a new roof, maybe.

MATT: “Oh, I have to fix that.”

TALIESIN: You do. Money can help.

MATT: “Explains the cold.” He smears black right across the front of his face.

TALIESIN: Doesn't it, though?

MATT: It's like gelled in with whatever mucus had been captured in there as well, streaked across.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's not a mustache. That's so– ugh.

MATT: He comes back and he's now keeping, previously it was out in the open, he's learned his lesson. He has these glass vials, similar to what they put potions in, but now he's filling them with powder. And he brings out about four of them. “This is as much as I will spare. I already sold a lot recently to the lady. I have my own tinkering to do, but if you wish to buy these?”

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: “I would be happy to sell.”

TALIESIN: That would be lovely.

MATT: “Okay. Process of distilling, drying, preparing, 250 gold!”

TALIESIN: I think that's very fair.

MATT: “Wondrous! Deal, deal.”

TALIESIN: Vex?

LAURA: Yes?

TALIESIN: 250 gold, if you'd be so kind.

LAURA: That much?

TALIESIN: I'm going to make you something lovely.

LAURA: (singsong) I love you!

TALIESIN: You're welcome.

MATT: “Hiiii!”

LAURA: H-hi. I give the money to Percy to give to him.

TALIESIN: And I hand it out.

(laughter)

MATT: “Would you like some coffee?”

TALIESIN: Victor! Thank you, you're so kind. And if you would be so lovely as to not mention us to my friend if she should happen back.

MATT: “50 gold.”

SAM: Oh, shit!

LAURA: Tell you what, Victor. I don't think you want to tell her anything.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

LIAM: All you need is a five.

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. 12.

MATT: (laughs) Given the circumstance, he has a really low DC on this, so I'm glad this is the one you rolled a 12 on. He goes, “For you? I saw nothing!”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I love you, darling.

MATT: He catches it and he grabs a glass vial and puts it in and caps it up.

LAURA: Okay. Keep it safe, dear.

TALIESIN: Until we meet again. All of us. Until we all meet again. Always a pleasure. Ah, keep safe, and–

MATT: “Yes?”

TALIESIN: Keep safe.

MATT: “Will do.”

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: “Bye!” He waves with his three fingers. “Close the door when you're done!”

LIAM: If I may–

(cheering)

TALIESIN: You're welcome, Internet. You're welcome.

LAURA: That was amazing.

LIAM: Oh, man. Hire that fucking fool!

(laughter)

MATT: The rest of you find your way back at the Bellows' Respite Inn where the rest of the party has been drinking.

(cheering)

MARISHA: How'd it go?

MARY: (drunkenly) Wait, wait, wait, wait– okay– okay.

MATT: Wow, you've been drinking.

MARY: Grog, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MARY: The first time I ever saw you, you were fighting… the Hammer? Who were you fighting?

TRAVIS: Yep, yep, Hammer, Hammer.

MARY: You were fighting the Hammer. So I went away and I made you… a hammer. And I'm gonna give you the hammer.

TRAVIS: You made me a hammer?!

MARY: I did! That's what I do. I like to forge things.

TRAVIS: Really?

MARY: I do. So I made you a hammer.

LAURA: Does she not drink very much?

WILL: Not very much at all.

TRAVIS: That is amazing! I love hammers!

MARY: And I put my crest on it. It's a moon. It's a full moon.

LIAM: You said she was lush, you didn't say she was a lush.

TRAVIS: Is it like a moon hammer?

MARY: A lovely moon hammer. I want you to have it. I want you to have it.

WILL: Z, you gotta slow down.

MARISHA: No, never!

TRAVIS: You don't– you don't have it now?

MARY: I'll give it to you before we go.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay.

LAURA: I go and I sit next to Kashaw.

LIAM: Keek.

MARISHA: What? Hi.

LIAM: How many of those have you had?

MARISHA: What?

LIAM: Less than five?

WILL: Two or three.

MARISHA: Three? Two, three?

WILL: Enough to where it's fun.

MARISHA: It's blurry. You should join us! You all have to catch up. Come on! Life has been hard! Come on.

MARY: Come on, Burt!

MATT: A barkeep comes by, a human gentleman you recognize from before as Once-Lucky Ned, who had originally given you some information. Comes by, puts the drinks down. “I thought it was you!”

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: “Heh, heh. Phillip! Phillip! It's good to see you.”

TRAVIS: No, no, it was– it was Philip before, and now it's Grog.

MATT: “Oh, he beat the name out of you. That's harsh.”

TRAVIS: No, no, no. That was the first time, and then I came back and won my vengeance. Right?

MATT: “Right, right.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: “You want to be known as… I see (clicks tongue). I got you.”

TRAVIS: Grog, Grog.

MATT: “Grog the Phillip is in town! Should anyone wish to take the title of the Crucible, this would be the one to talk to. Heh-heh.”

MARY: Woo!

MATT: Faces turn, then go back to business.

MARISHA: Is Zahra the only one that claps?

MARY: Woo! Ooh!

(laughter)

WILL: Oh, Z. Oh, Z.

MARY: Shut up, Kash.

MARISHA: I have missed you guys. I've never met you! But I missed you guys.

MARY: I've missed… you.

TALIESIN: I think we need to catch up a bit. Vax, Vex, let's all have a toast to the inevitability of the universe, please. A cheers.

LIAM: Which one of us? What was that?

TALIESIN: Vex and Vax. We're having a toast to the inevitability of the cosmos.

LAURA: A toast? We're toasting? At a time like this?

TALIESIN: We are.

MARISHA: Look, there's never not a good time to toast.

WILL: Is there a better time to toast than when the world is gonna end?

MARISHA: Exactly.

MARY: We're about to lose everything, we might as well celebrate what we've got.

MARISHA: I toast to celebrating the end of the world with the best friends we could possibly have.

TALIESIN: I'm, I'm, I have something to say to this.

SAM: Oh, Percy, well.

TALIESIN: I have something to say.

MARISHA: All right, Percy, come on.

TALIESIN: When one is born into gentry, one is born with an innate sense of destiny.

(groaning)

TALIESIN: An innate sense that the world is moving in a direction–

SAM: Fuck the dragons!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We have been given a direction to move to actually defeat our foes. We have been given a sign, we have been given something to move for. There is an inevitability to the goodness of the universe–

TRAVIS: (slurred) Inevitability.

MARISHA: There is something to fight for, damn it!

SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Fuck the dragons!

MARY: Here's to fighting for something more than just money.

TRAVIS: (slurred) Inevitability.

LIAM: I would rather be with you all than the finest people in the world.

MARISHA: Cheers to that, because God knows we're not the finest.

MARY: When you find them, let us know.

WILL: I agree with you about the inevitability of the universe. The inevitability is that it's always shit.

TALIESIN: There's stones that are thrown into the river. There are stones that are thrown upon the river, but the river always moves.

WILL: It's true, but you're not talking about the fish that's killed by the stones that's thrown into the river.

TRAVIS: Can I go and find the barkeep?

MATT: Yeah, Once-Lucky Ned is there.

TRAVIS: Remember, right? It's just Grog. It's not like “Grog the Phillip.” It's just Grog.

MATT: “Oh, I apologize.”

TRAVIS: No, it's all right, it's okay. So, does Earthbreaker Groon, does he ever come in here? Big guy, muscley, long, like, stringy–

MATT: “I know of him. He doesn't come in and drink, no. He spends most of his days over there in that big Trial Forge Temple of Kord.”

TRAVIS: He never comes out?

MATT: “He'll go into the city on occasion. But he's one of them, how do I put it? 'Medititive' types.”

TRAVIS: “Medititive”?

MATT: “Yes. Spends a lot of time thinking. Sleeping while standing up. It's weird.”

TRAVIS: What? I don't understand. How do you do that?

MATT: “You'll have to ask him.”

TRAVIS: “Medititive.”

MATT: “Yes.”

LIAM: Meeting of the minds.

TRAVIS: All right. Is he like–? All right. Thank you.

MATT: “No worries. I mean, if I recall, he actually came and saw your last bout.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, he did! And I want to like go see him, but I don't know anything about “medititiveness,” like sleeping standing up.

MATT: “Go over there to the Trial Forge! He's seen you once, maybe he'll say hello again.”

TRAVIS: What should I, like, bring him a gift?

MATT: “I don't know. I don't ever talk to him.”

TRAVIS: Is anybody here, like, in the room right now behind me? Are they present at the Trial Forge very often? Hey, don't be so obvious.

(laughter)

MATT: “No clue.”

TRAVIS: All right. And I flip him a silver. Bing.

LIAM: That's like half a penny.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: We're just talking (laughs). All right.

SAM: (sighs) What is it, like, noon right now?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: (singing) Day-drinking!

MATT: Well, no, it's probably about 1:30, two o'clock in the afternoon.

MARY: (slurring) Kash and I just got back from frikkin' and it's time to drinkin'!

WILL: We haven't even eaten yet.

MARISHA: Well, (laughs) I lost a fourth of my civilization!

WILL: That is funny.

TRAVIS: Wow. That went dark.

LIAM: I raise the bottom of Keyleth's glass and keep it going.

(laughter)

SAM: Should we find Kima next, or should we spend the day here?

MARISHA: Oh, that's right, we still have work to do.

LAURA: Well, we do have some very inebriated–

LIAM: Yeah, I think we've accidentally gotten shit-faced.

MARY: I can just walk and not do anything.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, she can manage.

MARISHA: Maybe if we hang here long enough Kima will show up.

LIAM: No. We're drunk. Here's what we should do.

LAURA: I'm not drunk.

LIAM: You ready?

SAM: I'm not drunk.

TALIESIN: I'm not either.

LIAM: We should go watch Grog fight.

LAURA: What? There are dragons in the world, right now! And we're fighting? We're going to watch a fight?

LIAM: We need– listen to me. We need Kima with us, but Kima doesn't have time for fucking drunkards. You might not be, but some of us are a little drunk. So, while that's going on, we wait a day, right? And while that day is going on, we watch Grog pummel some person's face in.

MARISHA: Plus, when I was a little girl, we used to be taught that if you were ever lost in the forest, to stay and hug a tree.

LAURA: Don't hug him, Keyleth.

MARISHA: And someone will come and find you.

WILL: I like this plan.

MARISHA: So if we stay in one place and this ale is like our tree, okay? We hug the ale and Kima will show up. That's my theory.

MATT: While this is happening, Vex, you glance over her shoulder to the entryway to this bar, and you see stepping in, a familiar, burly looking half-orc gentleman.

MARISHA: Damn it, I was hoping it was Kima!

TALIESIN: That would have been hilarious.

MATT: He walks in, wiping his hands from dirt in the mines, stops, looks over at your table. Slowly backs out of the tavern and steps back out into the thoroughfare.

LIAM: Hey, look at that guy who went out the door! He looked like that guy you fought in that ring.

TRAVIS: Really?

LIAM: That guy, yeah. Go get (stammering) do it again.

TRAVIS: Hold on a second. And I run out the door. I run after him, out the door.

MATT: Yeah. Make a perception check.

LIAM: Oh, come on, Grog.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18. You step out in the front of the tavern, and immediately to the left, you see him ducking into the alleyway.

TRAVIS: Wait! Kern! Kern! And I take off running after him.

MATT: Okay. You turn around the corner and you see his back is against the wall and he has sweat dripping down his brow. “Hi.”

TRAVIS: Hey. Funny seeing you here.

LAURA: I run up behind Grog.

MARISHA: Why are they acting like they fucked?

TRAVIS: Things been good?

MATT: At this point–

WILL: Did you guys date?

MARISHA: They're ex-lovers!

MATT: He looks down. “Still a little sore.”

TRAVIS: Right. Yeah.

MATT: “How about you?”

TRAVIS: When I chew, my jaw goes to one side. It's fucking weird.

MATT: “Yeah.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Are you guys all right, then? Everything's fine?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to go, grab a drink.

TRAVIS: So, I meant to ask you, that big, muscly, like long stringy white-haired guy that was watching our last fight.

MATT: “Yeah, yeah. The Earthbreaker.”

TRAVIS: Yeah. Who is he to you?

MATT: “I've seen him around. Haven't really… I talked to him once. I'll level with you. Went to him for a little training after our first fight.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: “Um. Says I'm a little too angry to pursue his path.”

TRAVIS: Angry?

MATT: “I got a lot of pent-up rage the way I was raised.”

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Family issues? Tell me about it.

MATT: “Tell me about it. (chuckles) Well, half my folks are bloodthirsty, wandering barbarians in the Northern Wastes.”

TRAVIS: No way!

(laughter)

MATT: “Yeah. What, you think being a half-orc's great? No! It's bullshit!”

TRAVIS: I know! You think goliath is any better? It's the same fucking thing!

MATT: “At least you're made for this weather! It's cold out here!”

TRAVIS: That's true, it is fucking cold out here.

MATT: “Yeah, it is.”

TRAVIS: I can only imagine. I'm really sorry I took your lip off, by the way.

MATT: “Sorry I took yours off, too.”

TRAVIS: That's true. Mine healed better.

MATT: “Yeah.”

TRAVIS: Hey, so. When you trained with him, because you were doing all that yoga pilates stuff. Did it help you out?

MATT: “Well, obviously not, really.”

TRAVIS: Right. What did he ask in exchange for the tutorial?

MATT: “He didn't ask for any pay. He–”

WILL: Oh god, what did he ask for?

MATT: “He told me I had–”

SAM: (mutters) Pretty eyes.

MATT: “–to help someone.”

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Help someone.

MATT: “He still hasn't given me the proper details yet and he hasn't called in the debt, but he told me one day, I was to help him test someone, and he'd train me.”

TRAVIS: In that Trial Forge, are there like, more of him, like a bunch of big, jacked-out guys in there?

MATT: “Not as big as him, no. But there's plenty of others that train under him. All sorts of warriors. Weapons of all kinds. It's Kord!” He looks over, and you see in the distance, the giant statue of Kord that sits atop the Trial Forge. He looks over and with a look of reverence, gives a nod, and you can see that this man, a glimmer of faith in his eyes. He himself probably a follower of Kord as well. “He's a great man. I'm not the right temperament, it seems. But that's fine. He's getting along okay.”

TRAVIS: Right. I won't take up too much more of your time, but if I could ask you one last thing. Aside from the Slayer's Take and the Trial Forge, if you had to find men at arms, men to attack a very large foe, possibly quite dangerous, where would you go?

MATT: “Probably the Platinum Sanctuary. Between them and the Trial Forge, that's most of the actual army. Most of it's Trial Forge. It's part of what the Braving Grounds are about. They train the armies here, it's where they breed warriors.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: “Most of the Bastions that look over the city are trained here, so it's– those are my best bets, at least. Not much of a political man.”

TRAVIS: Well, it's been good seeing you. No one hit quite as hard as you did.

MATT: “You too. Um. The medal was a joke. I was in a sore place. Literally, a very, very sore place.”

TRAVIS: Uh-huh.

MATT: “I wanted to apologize for that.”

TRAVIS: Uh-huh.

MATT: “I should go.” He starts walking past you, out into the main street.

TRAVIS: Kern. Kord's strength to you, my friend.

MATT: He doesn't even look back to you. “Uh, you too!” and keeps walking.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow. Wow.

TRAVIS: I go back into the tavern.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Did you kill him, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yep, yep, there's a lot of pieces of him all over the alley!

SAM: That's my boy.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I like, left nothing to find. It's great.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: I walked out and they were making out.

TRAVIS: Shut the– that is not what we were doing.

LAURA: Mugging down in the alleyway.

MARISHA: Ooh, Grog! I didn't know you swung that way.

TRAVIS: Swung what way?

MARISHA: Toward– never mind.

SAM: Swung your axe.

MARY: Could I have another cup of coffee here?

MATT: “Of course, coming your way.”

LIAM: No man's– you know– goes straight on. Goes a little bit to the left, a bit of–

WILL: Some men go straight on.

LIAM: I go sit down next to Kash.

LAURA: I sit down next to the other side of Kash, in between him and Keyleth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit and watch right next to you.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: (yelling) Another drink!

LAURA: How about, Keyleth, not another drink.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: How about you have some water, dear.

MARISHA: Mm, it's been a long few weeks.

MARY: Come here, Keyleth darling, we'll get some coffee.

TALIESIN: No coffee for me, thank you.

LIAM: Excuse me, if I may. All I want to say is that you are a very impressive man in many ways. You are handsome and capable.

LAURA: Your eyes are two different colors, which is very interesting.

LIAM: That's a little creepy, but other than that, you are very, very capable– Percival, I'm having trouble focusing, so if you could sort of go behind Kash.

WILL: I don't know what's happening. I don't know what's happening. Is he hitting on me? What's happening?

LIAM: No, no. No, no, no, no. There's only one man for me.

WILL: What?

LIAM: All I'm saying is–

MARY: What man is that?

LIAM: (slurring) We could use your help, all right? I know you're a bit of a mercenary, but you are a very capable man and there is a lot at stake. There is a lot at stake. There are dragons, they killed– I'm not going to get into it. But I implore you to look past yourself and please try to think of the greater world. (stuttering) I'm an admirer–

WILL: You've said several times that you're an admirer of mine.

LIAM: Yes.

WILL: Very sweet.

LIAM: Also, one last thing.

WILL: Mm-hmm?

LIAM: You know what, never mind. I don't want to talk about that. And I wander off into the other side of the room.

WILL: I have literally no idea what just happened.

SAM: (laughs) He's a complicated man. He goes to dark places.

LAURA: Keyleth. Maybe you should go see what's happening?

LIAM: (muffled) It's dark in this closet!

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: Go, maybe you should go see what is going on with my brother? Maybe you should go find out what's happening with my brother.

LIAM: How do you get this closet door open? I can't get back out here.

LAURA: He's stuck in a closet.

MARY: It's all right. Girl talk. So, Keyleth.

MARISHA: What. What. What?

MARY: I heard a little. I wasn't sure and I then saw you and I thought oh, all right, well, you know, yeah, all right. So, what, you know? With the what? (whispers) What happened? With him?

MARISHA: I literally never even had this experience in high school, it's throwing me.

MARY: (whispers) Come on.

MARISHA: I don't know how to react to any of this.

LIAM: What is high school?

LAURA: Keyleth. She's talking about you kissing Kash.

MARY: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh! Right! Oh!

MARY: He told me. He told me a little bit.

MARISHA: Funny you mention that, yeah, you know–

LAURA: Wasn't he your first kiss?

MARY: Do you like him?

LAURA: Isn't that so wonderful?

MARY: I know, it's wonderful. Do you like him?

MARISHA: I, um, you know, okay, I'm kind of new to all of this. I don't really know what's going on?

MARY: What, to talking? You're doing very well.

MARISHA: Thank you. I'm new to that as well.

MARY: No!

MARISHA: Um–

LAURA: I'll give you a helpful hint.

MARISHA: Okay. Yes.

LAURA: If you're interested in someone, make sure they know.

MARISHA: (breathless) Oh.

LAURA: And if you're not, then stop fucking dragging them along, because it's not fair.

MARY: What if she doesn't know? What if she can't decide?

MARISHA: Oh, you think I'm dragging Kash along? Oh no no no no no.

LAURA: Sure. You're dragging Kash along.

MARISHA: I mean, he was just, I only spent a day with him.

LAURA: Mmm.

MARISHA: It was just a day.

LIAM: Vex! I can't get out of this closet.

WILL: Jesus.

LAURA: Is he really, truly stuck in a closet? Right now?

MARISHA: I thought he was a lockpick.

LAURA: (laughing) I go, I walk away.

LIAM: (mournfully) I rolled a one.

MARISHA: This is literally the only thing Vax is good at. He really can't get out of the closet?

TALIESIN: I just want to say, I don't think the dragons stand a chance.

(laughter)

WILL: We've got them now!

LIAM: I can't get out of this closet as hard as I try.

LAURA: What are you doing? Stop it.

MARISHA: Seriously though (quietly) I'm really confused.

MARY: I know, don't hurt him. He's wonderful.

MARISHA: Kash?

MARISHA: Okay.

MARY: He's wonderful.

MARISHA: Okay.

MARY: If you do– he's wonderful.

TALIESIN: My god, I love other people's problems.

SAM: This is amazing. Sorry about this, Kash.

WILL: No, this has been wonderful.

SAM: When our party gets–

WILL: I have men and women telling me I'm incredible.

TALIESIN: You are very attractive.

WILL: That's, wow, that's two.

SAM: I just met you, and I don't know much about you, but are you more of a Vax man or a Vex man? Like, how do you roll? How do you–?

WILL: I don't, again, I don't know what that means.

(laughter)

SAM: Would you be interested in the rogue or the ranger?

LIAM: We're identical.

WILL: Oh. Oh! I see what you're saying. All right, I get it. I go taco, not hot dog.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: Yes! I love taco!

SAM: High five it.

TRAVIS: Respect. Respect.

LAURA: Are we sober yet? Can we go find Kima?

MARY: Yes, we're sober!

LIAM: I think we need to go to bed.

MARY: Yes. Let's get a break.

MATT: After a brief time of coffee and a bit of sobering, you find yourselves of sound enough mind.

LIAM: 17 hours later?!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Coffee, coffee.

MARY: I metabolize things very quickly, you'd be surprised.

MATT: A few hours, two hours, let's say. It's four, five o'clock in the afternoon.

MARISHA: Five o'clock?

TALIESIN: Or four o'clock. Four o'clock.

MATT: As you, sobering up, the coffee's helped. You find yourself clear of mind to continue onto your intended events for the day. With that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. We'll be back here–

(cheering)

WILL: (laughs) Dragons don't stand a chance!

(laughter)

WILL: (laughs) That was awesome.

MATT: All right, guys, we'll see you here in a few minutes. Thank you.

(laughter)

LIAM: That was great. Man.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So, before we get back into this, a couple quick announcements. One, if we get to 15,000 subscribers tonight, tomorrow's crew will be celebrating 15k and a Cosplay Day. All of our crew will be dressing up as their favorite characters all night. So you guys should go ahead and see if we can hit that number, because that would be awesome and hilarious and awesome.

LAURA: I might have heard what some people are going to be dressing up as and I'm very excited about it.

MATT: I heard a couple, too. You guys would enjoy it, so make it happen, please. I want to see it. Also, a reminder that if you want to help support the channel, check out the Geek and Sundry Amazon Wish List. You can find the list in chat if you type “!Wishlist” there and that will give you access to it and you can see if there's any way you want to help build the channel and make it more awesome. So there's that. Liam will join us when he can. But we're going to jump in for the time being. So, as you guys exit the tavern, you look out into the Braving Fields.

TALIESIN: I suddenly remember to go back and open the closet.

MARISHA: Oh shit, we need to get the rogue out of the closet.

MATT: There is that, yeah. So you're in the center of the Braving Grounds– we traded Liam for Travis.

LAURA: Yeah. I don't know.

MATT: Exactly.

LIAM: Grog, can you get this door open?

(laughter)

MARY: It is open, darling. Come on.

SAM: Are we going to Kima now, or are we going to go see Grog fight?

LIAM: Is Grog fighting?

MATT: To your left, around the Heaven's Stair, the giant mountain that bisects the northern portion of Vasselheim, around that way, a little bit of travel, but that heads towards the Bahamut section of the city, where the Platinum Sanctuary is. To your vision, immediately outside the tavern, you can see the giant statue of Kord, where the Trial Forge is. And to the south of you is where the Quadroads are, in the southern regions. What do you guys want to do?

TRAVIS: I don't really feel like fighting. I just want to go talk to Master Splinter at the Trial Forge.

SAM: Sure, sure. All right, we can do that another day, maybe? Or do you want to–?

TRAVIS: I'm not in a rush.

LAURA: Should we go to the Platinum Sanctuary? Where Kima is, right?

TALIESIN: Let's go talk to Kima.

LIAM: Yeah, right now.

LAURA: Oh, should we wait until some people are more sober?

MARY: No, I'm all right, coffee helps. Coffee helps.

LAURA: Walking will help.

MARY: Walking and coffee.

SAM: Maybe we should– they can wait outside or something.

MARISHA: But I miss Kima.

TRAVIS: Oh Jesus.

MATT: It's been a few hours, and you guys have had some coffee, so you're still a little tipsy, but you're not useless.

(laughter)

MATT: To put it nicely. All right, so where do you guys want to head into–?

LAURA: The Platinum Sanctuary.

MATT: All right, you guys make your way south, southwest around the curvature of the base of the Heaven's Stair. You can see up along the mountain itself, large, ominous, this monolith of earth that looks over the entirety of Vasselheim. You can see embedded in the rock itself, there are various homesteads toward the base. As you look up, you can see there's a number of stairways that just spiral around in different directions. You can see small cliffs and precipices that are built on the outside and look to be either various places of individual worship where statues are just barely visible, cresting on the edge. There's a number of constructs, just built into this mountain, that are probably as old as the city itself. You make your way around the south portion of it back into the actual area of Vasselheim, the Silver Talon's Reach, which is where largely Bahamut's worship occurs. You make your way past the scattered temples, all the different huts and hovels that build the central residential real estate to this territory. There are a few homes here that look a little bit like– this town is built on existing in hardship and difficulty, so a lot of people here are just stern folk that live amongst terrible weather and money and wealth isn't really presented or flaunted in this city. It's considered in very poor taste as everyone here is in some way, shape or form, to some level, is pious to some degree to one of the deities that are worshipped here. You find your way to the base of the stair that you recall, following when you first arrived here in Vasselheim, that leads up to the Platinum Sanctuary where you were delivering the Horn of Orcus originally.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right.

MATT: You follow it up the side and it is an extended staircase that curves up to these three silver spires that are pushing out from the side of the mountain, quite a ways up. After about almost 20 minutes of stair climbing, your legs start to cramp a bit, but you manage to make your way towards the top, the outside of the large stone doors. There you can see there are two Scalebearers of Vord, in their silver armor, blue cloaks at their back, weapons at the ready, just looking out. And as soon as you guys approach the top of the stairway, they change their stance to be a little more prepared.

MARISHA: (panting) Guys, this is hard to do with alcohol in your system.

WILL: Hard to do at all.

LIAM: A lot of horses and chickens around here, too.

WILL: I noticed that as well.

LIAM: Everywhere.

MARISHA: I didn't know this was a farming industry.

SAM: Hello there. Excuse us. We are of the Slayer's Take– Is that a good thing?

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: We are of the Slayer's Take and we ask for entry into your Platinum Temple.

MATT: “Your business is with whom?”

LAURA: Lady Kima.

MATT: Turns, nods to the other guy. They both grab these small handles and give a tug, and the door opens slightly and one of the guys disappears between the two doors. About 30 seconds pass to a minute, before he steps back out. “Your presence has been accepted by the Highbearer Vord, the Silvertouched. He will greet you in the central chamber, please.”

SAM: Thank you. How do we address him?

MATT: “Highbearer would suffice.”

SAM: All right.

MATT: “Please enter.”

LIAM: Will Kima be there?

MATT: He doesn't answer. The doors open even wider.

LIAM: Hey!

MATT: So as you guys enter the chamber once more, this is close to where you flew in in bird form and almost got arrested by the Highbearers.

MARISHA: Uh-huh, right, those guys.

MATT: So, as you enter the chamber, you see a number of the guards have already assembled and they're giving you a walkway path, both as a presentory arrival vigil, but also making sure that you don't wander off the predestined path to the main central meeting chamber.

WILL: But it doesn't seem antagonistic in any way.

MATT: No. Just– they're protecting their temple.

SAM: We'll make it that, though.

MATT: You guys continue inward, towards the central chamber, the high stone ceiling before you. You can see there are holes carved throughout the ceiling and the stonework that cause beams of light to come shooting through from the sky. What catches your interest in here is that the sky is cloudy. There is no specific source of direct sunlight, yet there are beams of light within the temple itself that form a pattern across the stone marble floor of the central chamber.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check?

MATT: Certainly.

LAURA: What's the pattern look like?

MATT: The pattern resembles a large shield, when you look at it. It's pointed toward the base of where you guys are walking in and fills most of the chamber in an oval fashion, before coming together in a line towards the back.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay, this definitely isn't a natural occurrence. The sunlight should not be projecting this way, which leads you to believe that there's something about the temple's enchantment or its construction that can either dissipate the veil of clouds to the sunlight or produce their own light to mimic it during all hours.

MARISHA: Cool.

WILL: Do any of us recognize the symbol on the floor?

MATT: You've seen– the shield itself is akin to the symbol of Bahamut, which is a shield with a silver dragon head on it. You've seen Kima use it previously when you guys were looking after her in the Underdark.

LAURA: We never got that stuff back.

SAM: Her stuff?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: As you guys push to the central chamber, you can see there's a line of three heavily armored Knights of Bahamut that are all there, standing shields at the ready, big tower shields that almost touch the ground. Two of them separate to one side and one separates to the other, and in the center, arriving before you, is Highbearer Vord, the Silvertouched, who some of you are seeing for the first time. Long, light brown hair that crests down past his shoulders, his features are very elven, very soft and ageless, but there is a very faint bluish hue to his skin. His eyes have no irises, no pupils. Steps forward and extends his hands. “It is good to see such friends, so I ask you once again to join me in this chamber. Can I help you?”

LIAM: (whispers) Yes.

LAURA: You can, actually. Well, we hope that you can, as it concerns dragon matters. We know that you serve Bahamut, the great, the wonderful, the very metallic. These very terrible colored– chromatic red, green, lots of different dragons, they've attacked–

SAM: How much do you know about the dragon attacks that have been raging across the world?

MATT: He looks about the rest of you, with a discerning glance, just spending a beat on each of you, almost like you're being judged and read in that instant. You feel as if someone is prying into your personality with but a glance, and it's unsettling at first, but nothing too invasive, just enough to catch you off guard. As he finishes the sweep of the party at hand: “I was given a vision in the night of a far city of man, swathed in ice and flame, of colors bonded and unleashed. And I feared it was the work of our lord's nemesis.”

LAURA: Straight-up nemesis?

MARISHA: Yes, can you elaborate?

MATT: He puts his hand up.

MARISHA: Sorry.

MATT: “However, with much prayer of mine and my acolytes, we find no tremor of the Dragon Queen, nor the stench of Baator, on this business.”

MARISHA: Dragon Queen Baator? Is that what he said? Baator?

MATT: Baator. B-a-a-t-o-r.

MARY: Is the Queen– I'm sorry– are the Queen and Baator the same?

MATT: Make a religion check.

LAURA: All of us or just–?

MATT: All of you, sure. Make a religion check.

LAURA: 20!

MARISHA: Ten.

LAURA: 12.

MARY: 15.

TRAVIS: 18!

WILL: 24.

LIAM: 13.

TALIESIN: 13.

WILL: 24.

MATT: Okay. None of these ring a bell, except for you, Kashaw. The Dragon Queen is indeed the nemesis of the Platinum Dragon, Bahamut. It is an entity known as Tiamat and is essentially the patron of most chromatic dragons. She resides in Baator, which is one of the Nine Hells.

LAURA: Eugh.

MATT: However, it seems that Vord is speaking in a way that, through much disturbed interest and prayer into this matter, there doesn't seem to be the scent of Tiamat's doing in this matter. And strangely, you see a bit of the tension in his face relax as he tells you this.

LAURA: So, if it's not the nemesis, the big nemesis, then you guys could probably take out these dragons, like, no problem, since they're not the Big Bads, they're just really bad.

MATT: “While these entities do concern us, there is the alternate vow that we've spoken, and that is to protect Vasselheim. The city has stood as long as it has because we have not left our post. And the moment that we were to attempt to move even a minority of our people in the city to be of aid to you in this endeavor, this would be the moment that the Dragon Queen will be waiting for to attack our citadel. There are many more forces beyond these dragons that you speak of in this world, bent against the destruction of this city. And we stand because we hold vigil here.”

MARISHA: But, sir, you should understand how close this destruction came from your doorstep.

MATT: “And yet it avoided our city. Do you know why? Because even such creatures know better than to lend their talons against us.”

MARISHA: But how do you know that will happen the next time? Is that always where you're going to place your bet?

MATT: “Do you think this will be the first time that ancient dragons have attempted to attack our fair city?”

MARISHA: How about four?

MATT: “I can guarantee you, should they mount an attack on us, four or not, they will fall.”

LAURA: Wow, then I guess everybody in the world can just move here.

WILL: Wait a second, you said dragons have attacked before and they were defeated. How?

MATT: “Well, we had the aid of Bahamut with us at that time.” And he glances up and you look up and you can see the rays of sun that have come through here, from your current position, you can see actually form a matching symbol. Not of a shield, but of a giant winged dragon outstretched across the curved roof of this temple.

LIAM: But let's talk about–

LAURA: He's saying something.

MARY: Please continue, I'm so sorry.

LIAM: My bad.

WILL: We've been drinking.

MATT: “Drinking?”

WILL: No. Water. Long walk up.

MATT: “Well, understand. I hear your plight. And I understand that we must aid you in this endeavor, best that we can. But we cannot swear to you our army.”

LAURA: What sort of aid can you offer, then?

MATT: “Well, now, while you seek out whatever your plot is to tear these creatures from their summit, we will grant to you, from our place in the Dawn City, our finest champion. While I have no resources to offer at this time, this champion shall come to your aid to help in any way that they can. And once they can report their certainty that victory can be had, perhaps we may be able to send a little more of our power your way.”

SAM: Will we know the presence of this champion or will it be a silent one?

MATT: “The champion is here.” And he steps aside and puts his hand out. And one of the armored knights steps forward, full armor, this tall, wide-chested masculine form. You can't see the face, the helmet protects it, but the shield comes out and slams the ground and goes to kneel on one knee. “Your charge, Platinum Knight Udire, one of our finest warriors, whom has had time and time again–” At which point you hear a loud (clang) sound as all of a sudden, Udire's thrown off of his feet, his shield bent in and skidding across the ground. You see stepping up behind, a female halfling, scar across the face–

LAURA: Fuck yeah!

MATT: – gold-trimmed armor, blue cloak behind her, shouting out, “Oh no, you don't! This is my home turf! I'm going.”

LAURA: Kima!

MARISHA: Yeah, Kima!

TALIESIN: We'll take that one.

MARISHA: We want that one.

MATT: Highbearer Vord rolls his eyes and sighs loudly. (growls) “Kima, you are in need of discipline and guidance. More than most who walk the Warrior's Path! Your foolish impulses will get you killed!”

MARISHA: I think her foolish impulses are exactly what Vox Machina's looking for.

MATT: She grins as she swings her maul, slams it onto the stone ground, a little bit of a rumble as you see a flash of divine energy from that. And a beam from the sky comes down and frames her form as she stands there clutching the top of it. “Better to die a fool for something than live in regret for doing nothing.”

TRAVIS: Church!

(laughter)

MATT: An awkward pause as Udire gets back up on his feet and pulls up the front of his helmet. You can see there's a very thin pencil 'stache underneath. A chiseled jaw and a man who looks like probably an intense, chivalrous-type knight gentleman, except there's a look of complete disdain and frustration. He gets up and goes, “Really, her?!” Vord raises his hand and grumbles. “Very well. Your new charge is Lady Kima, whom you are already affiliated. Please keep her from doing anything stupid.”

SAM: I think we want her to do her stupidest. Udire, it would have been a swell adventure with you, maybe next time. Sir, thank you for granting us this aid that we will definitely need in our journey. We also are new to this dragon-slaying business and would love your advice and any information you might have, especially about some specific items. Something called the Vestiges of Divergence?

MATT: His eyes squint for a moment as he puts his hands in front of his face. “Hmm. To step against such powerful dragons is indeed a death sentence. It's true that you need to prepare, arm yourselves against this doom. While we are meant to stay here in the most holiest of places, these relics you speak of from before the Second Spark still lie forgotten. Hmph, these elements even balked the Primordials of old, blades that slew the Children of the Dark. Where these relics lie, only story and tome can tell, unfortunately. Know that at any given time, you are not the only ones seeking this power. Consider things of such great strength are perpetually in the minds of those who would make their riches off of them or intend to take their own townships and peasantry under their own boot and gauntlet. Well…”

MARY: Do these Vestiges help you control the dragons? Do you become their leader if you find them?

MATT: “I don't believe any of that such capability, but I also am not a scholar of ancient magics and artifacts. I have merely come across their whispers in books and various classes I took as a child.”

LAURA: What sort of books? Fairy books?

MATT: “There are tomes scattered throughout the city. And there is the Cobalt Reserve.”

LAURA: Cobalt Reserve is gone. The dragons took it out.

MATT: “That is unfortunate.”

MARISHA: You said these tomes might still be in Vasselheim?

MATT: “Perhaps.”

MARISHA: Where?

MATT: “I wish I could tell you. We had one such entrusted to us long ago, but that was destroyed as part of the last assault on Vasselheim that we withstood.”

LAURA: Do you remember the description of any of the items from your stories?

SAM: Or how many there were?

MATT: “The stories say of at least a dozen. I can't be certain. I wish I could be of more aid in this, but this is not a path that I chose to learn much on.”

MARISHA: And are all artifacts necessary to defeating these dragons?

MATT: “I have no idea.”

LAURA: We should probably have asked–

MARISHA: Osysa.

MATT: “Though the warriors that once wielded these in the battles of old only seemed to have carried one or two each.”

MARY: How did you defeat them? The dragons that came to your doorstep?

MATT: “That was before my time, my dear.”

MARY: There are no legends, there are no scrolls that might recount the tale of how that happened, that you might still have somewhere?

MATT: “Depends. The Second Spark. Hmm.” He takes a moment to gather his thoughts as I take a moment to gather my notes.

(laughter)

WILL: While you're doing that, Udire's stuck in his armor over there.

TRAVIS: Dented in.

WILL: He's just dented in, he can't get out.

MATT: He's not happy at all about that.

Hold on. Got it.

LAURA: Sorry. One moment please.

MARY: Right here, hold on.

LIAM: I've got all my dragon lore over here. Just give me a second.

MATT: “It's a long tale, and I recommend you research the history yourself, but during the times of creation, when the gods first came upon this world, it was a place of chaotic energies, elements clashing. The very landscape itself was in eternal turmoil, wrestling for no purpose other than the destruction of the others. There were no boundaries. Yet the gods still came, and they created us, the various beings and entities. As they came to understand what their purpose was, as they themselves were still uncertain as to why they came to be, they hoped that through their creations, they could learn more about themselves. They began to watch the first burgeoning elves, dwarves, people. Within a short time, a very short time, the very chaotic nature of this landscape consumed and destroyed most of what remained. The only city that stood, the first city: Vasselheim. The titans that walked across these lands, great, primordial elemental kings, beings of no noble mind, sought to destroy any light or beauty. Thus the first war began. The peoples rose up, the gods' feet touched the ground, and alongside their creations they slew the titans, with the first of these Vestiges. Laying them to rest within the dirt, within the sky, casting the elements away from this plane, and separate to their own, where now they remain, amidst fire, earth, air, water, and their muddy boundaries between. Thus came a time of great privilege and prosperity. And it also came to be discovered that some of the gods, as part of creation during this bout with the titans, began to question the purpose of creation, to embrace the chaos that they fought in this battle, and they distanced themselves from the ones that guide us to this day. They began to take the children of the gods, to corrupt them, teach them the wonders of arcana, magics beyond the divine, the gifts of the gods, and for the first time, the creations began to find power separate from the creators. The arrogance to think that perhaps, now, they were gods themselves. Now, they were the gods' creations and they loved them very much, so they did not see this as a threat. But as the second expansion of civilization spread across the world, we saw rise great, new towns and cities and civilizations and cultures, as well as a new wave of insolence and selfishness. And these new dark gods began to prey upon this, and build a force to take those who still stay true to the first. This terrible war, this is what we knew as the Divergence. This is when the people were split in two. The gods were divided as well. Bloody battles ensued. And it looked as though, while all other cities fell into ruin, even Vasselheim would fall. But in this time, these Vestiges were expanded upon, those first few weapons, many more were created. And the Champions fought alongside the gods once more. And victory was had, the dark gods banished to various planes, far from this plane. But it was then the gods also decided that perhaps their delving had caused this, and they receded, leaving the mortals to find their own way, to rebuild a second time, with the warning of the dangers of arcane, which Vasselheim still to this day holds in its prime oaths. Many of these Vestiges that you seek were destroyed, but some were kept, some were lost, some were entombed, some were re-found and rediscovered and used as symbols of power. But since this Second Spark of civilization, the gods felt that the true penance was the destruction of all their people had built, and the gods leaving us to our own. Thus started the Penance, where to this day, we still make up for the infractions and sins of our arrogant brothers and sisters of that day. So, since then, we've had other new civilizations spring up: Wildemount, Tal'Dorei, Syngorn, Marquet. These are the newer cities of the Third Age.”

LIAM: May I ask– Vestiges, the word in these legends, it seems vague. Does no one know anything about what they were? Is that a stand-in for things we don't understand or know about? What are these Vestiges?

MATT: “We know of them. Understand, artifacts and relics of this power are very dangerous. And what better way to hide things of such power than to destroy the knowledge of where they may be or even if they exist?”

MARISHA: Sir, I come from the Ashari people.

MATT: “Yes.”

MARISHA: We are here to protect those boundaries that we set several thousand years ago. Do you think that some of this knowledge might still be within my people?

MATT: “It is possible. I am not a practitioner of the history of the Ashari people.”

WILL: Objects with that much power have to leave some trace somewhere. Anything you can think of, a place to start.

MATT: “Cobalt Reserve. There the monks keep some of the most ancient of texts. We here at Vasselheim keep a watchful eye on things that relate to the wars of old, the history of our deities, of our temples, to not repeat the mistakes we have. The monks are more eclectic in their collections. Perhaps they can be of more aid.”

LAURA: Maybe not all of the Reserve was destroyed. Maybe they have secret rooms underground, where they keep the most ancient texts. We should at least check.

TALIESIN: It would be worth looking, at the very least.

LAURA: Allura was on her way there.

SAM: Highbearer. These dragons who are running rampant across the world, them being chromatic dragons, do you think they have pledged their loyalty to the Queen?

MATT: “If they have, it's a very– no, they would not be able to shroud the sight of the Platinum Dragon himself.”

LAURA: Isn't it very strange for dragons to pledge their allegiance to any other dragon?

MATT: “For chromatics, it is.”

LAURA: Then why are they serving the red one?

MATT: “The red one?”

TRAVIS: The Cinder King.

LAURA: Thordak.

MARISHA: That's what he calls himself.

LAURA: He's ancient. He was in the Fire Realm– the Fire Plane and broke free. And now he has other dragons serving him.

MATT: “Chromatic dragons respond to a few things: gold, dominance, and strength. If this red dragon is as ancient and as powerful as you say, perhaps he, even he, could bully lesser dragons.”

MARISHA: Or do you think it's possible he is offering any one of those rewards?

MATT: “There are many possibilities. You would have to ask one of them yourself.”

TALIESIN: I get the distinct feeling we will get that chance.

MARISHA: So, if this is the Third Age, does that mean the Fourth is upon us?

MATT: “I hope not.”

MARISHA: As do I.

MATT: “But if it does, we will do everything we can to see that this city stands. It is the only link we have to the past. Should Vasselheim fall, I dare say all is lost.”

MARY: At the cost of everything else, Vasselheim stands? That's my only question.

MATT: “That is your question?”

MARY: Yes.

MATT: “From here, civilization could spring anew. People could defend themselves and thrive thereafter. The rest of the world is scattered. Petty squabbles, selfish personal endeavors that lead to foolishness and treachery. Should this city fall, and one of those remain, that is a breeding ground for the dark powers that lie beyond the Veil. It is only here that those who are the most devout could truly have the hearts and minds to guide us, Bahamut forbid, into a Fourth Age.”

SAM: Well, thank you for all your help. One more question before we leave you to your–

MATT: Which you see, Kima slams her hammer on the ground. “Oh my god! Can we just go? I'm sick of hearing him rattle on.” Vord puts his hand out. “Kima!”

SAM: On our journey, we may have to travel long distances quite often. Is there any means of quick travel to other parts of the continent from Vasselheim?

LAURA: Perhaps any flying carpets that you have lying around?

SAM: Airships, teleportation circles, any means that you know.

MATT: “We do not deal in such teleportation magics beyond the divine-provided ones, and those I assume are beyond most of you. However, there is still the Skyport, which I believe you arrived in when you first came to us? Other than that, if none among you are able to achieve any sort of distance translocation, then I highly doubt you have the ability to stand up against these dragons you seek to destroy.”

MARISHA: We got it. It's fine. It's handled.

LAURA: Thank you for the vote of confidence.

TALIESIN: I think we have everything we need here.

LAURA: Yes, unless you have any amulets or magical things lying around?

SAM: How's that Horn of Orcus going, by the way?

MARISHA: Good question, actually.

MATT: “Shh!”

SAM: Oh, sorry.

TALIESIN: Ix-nay on the orn-hay.

SAM: Sorry.

MATT: “And with that–”

LAURA: So no on the magic items? Of protection?

MATT: “I have business for the day.”

LAURA: Cool.

WILL: I'm not going to ask him how his family is.

SAM: No, don't do that.

MATT: “Show our guests out, please.” “With pleasure.” Slings her maul up on her shoulder. “Let's step outside first.”

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: And she leads you all outside, the temple doors close. As soon as the doors close, she tells the two guards, “Shove off, please. We have to have a conversation.” The guards kind of frustratedly turn around and go back and close the door. As soon as the doors close behind them, she goes, “Oh my god, guys!”

(cheering)

MATT: She rushes out, gives hugs to everyone that she knows. She skips you, asks to be introduced to– “And–”

LAURA: Zahra. Kima.

MARY: I'm Zahra.

MATT: “Zahra, nice to meet you.”

MARY: Nice to meet you, Kima.

MATT: “Kima. Lady Kima.”

MARY: Lady Kima. Lady. All right.

MARISHA: And have you met Kash? Kashaw.

WILL: Kashaw. Vesh.

MATT: “Hmph.”

WILL: All right then.

MATT: “You're brooding.”

WILL: Don't mean to be. It's been a rough– yes. Thank you.

(laughter)

MATT: “All right, so. I caught some of that discussion. Dragons? What are we after here?”

SAM: Big scary dragons.

MATT: “I tend to glaze over when he's talking.”

LAURA: Emon's gone, Kima.

TRAVIS: Yeah, basically four big fuck-off chromatic dragons destroyed Emon and then Westruun and– Allura was there, she was very upset.

MATT: “Is she all right? Is Allie all right?”

TALIESIN: She's fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Allie is fine.

LIAM: We just parted ways with her– (groans) I have such a headache.

TALIESIN: Two days ago.

MATT: “My home temple's in Westruun.”

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: We should definitely go there. We need to look at the Cobalt Reserve as well. We need to meet up with Allura, though. She was– (sighs).

MATT: “All right, well. I'm with you. Wherever you need me.”

MARISHA: I just pass Vax my water canteen on the sly.

LIAM: And I very obviously chug the entire thing.

MATT: “A few of you started early. I'm jealous.”

MARISHA: Kima, it's been very hard since we last saw you.

MATT: “I can see it on your faces. You all look a bit harrowed.

TRAVIS: Hairy?

MATT: "You surprise me day after day, Grog.”

TRAVIS: Why, thank you. Don't have to hide it around me, it's okay.

MATT: “All right, where are we off to?”

LAURA: That's a good question.

MARISHA: Where are we going?

WILL: Cobalt Reserve, he said twice.

LAURA: Yes, but that's in Westruun.

SAM: It's been destroyed.

LAURA: Not necessarily, I mean yes, it's fucked up.

TRAVIS: We still need to go talk to Earthbearer Groon and see what kind of lesson was there.

MARISHA: I also really need to check out the Fire Ashari.

TALIESIN: Fire Ashari are on the way.

LIAM: Let's count out the things that we want to do. Not what we're going to choose, just what we have to do, and then we'll choose something. We've got the Cobalt Reserve, which may or may not be totally fucked, right?

MARY: It could give us information about these dragons.

MARISHA: We need to go by there regardless. We need to stop by Westruun.

LIAM: Okay. So there's Osysa's mate.

LAURA: That's down by Westruun.

LIAM: Down by Westruun, in the mountains.

MARISHA: That's on the way.

LIAM: Yeah. We've got your people.

MARISHA: Also on the way out the door.

LAURA: It is?

MARISHA: It's not far from here.

MATT: It's roughly three days' travel, southwest of Vasselheim.

LAURA: But there's trees.

MARISHA: There are trees. I can also pop through a tree. I can pop through a tree through most places. Pop through a tree and get us to Westruun, as long as we take a nap.

LIAM: Three options. Are we forgetting anything?

LAURA: And Grog wants to talk to–

TRAVIS: Earthbearer Master Splinter.

MARISHA: Earthbreaker.

TALIESIN: While we charter a ship.

MARISHA: Percy really wants an airship. Dear gods, does he want an airship.

TALIESIN: What a perfect way to make our way quickly and efficiently.

LIAM: Let's just talk–

MARISHA: Quickly? Efficiently?

WILL: You can go through trees?

MARISHA: I can.

SAM: Only trees she's seen and knows very well.

TRAVIS: But the Earthbreaker is here.

MARISHA: Luckily, all places that we are going, we've been to.

LIAM: I mean, if we're spiraling out, right? Earthbreaker's here, Ashari are close by, and then we're talking about in and around Westruun.

LAURA: Yeah. So let's go to the Earthbreaker.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go to the Earthbreaker.

TALIESIN: Followed by the Ashari.

SAM: Followed by the airship.

TALIESIN: Followed by the airship.

MATT: “Earthbreaker. As in Dawn Marshal? The great Dawn Marshal of–? (chuckles) I've only seen him from a distance. He's a rough-looking fella.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, right. He's got a pair of arms on him, doesn't he?

MATT: “I'm excited to see this.” Puts it over her shoulder and she's walking down, her little legs (clanging) with her armor down the stairs.

TRAVIS: Hold up, Kima. Hold up. What do you mean? Have you spoken with him before?

MATT: “I've seen him punch someone's head clear off.”

LAURA: Off of his body?

SAM: That is so cool.

WILL: You only turn them into paste.

LIAM: Level up.

TRAVIS: I'm excited.

MARY: Oh! Oh dear.

MATT: (laughs) “You're not the only one!” And she continues rushing ahead. You get the feeling that Kima's been locked up and been doing temple stuff for quite some time and is very happy to get out of her general duties.

LIAM: Lead the way, shitkicker!

MATT: You guys head back down the outside of the Heaven's Stair, making your way back to the outside of the Trial Forge. You can still see now it's middle of the afternoon, all the forges throughout the town are in full steam. You see big plumes of black smoke pouring out of the various steelworks.

MARISHA: On our way there, I pace next to Kash. So, do you– have you met Kima?

WILL: No.

MARISHA: I get the feeling that you guys knew each other.

WILL: No. Never met Kima in my life. She didn't seem to like me very much, which is odd, because everyone else seems to think I'm an amazing guy. Vax and Vex, everyone telling me they love my eyes, they love this– I don't know, it's weird. Bunch of your friends are just very weird.

MARISHA: You seem really put off by it. I didn't know it was so–

WILL: I'm not used to being around people all the time. I have one real friend, and that's Z. I'm only with her because she saved my life. I'd do anything for her. Everybody else is odd for me.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel that.

WILL: There is one thing I wanted to say to you, though, about our kiss. I'm very happy that it happened. But I shouldn't have stolen it. And for that, I apologize.

MARISHA: You don't need to apologize. I also don't ever want to hurt anyone.

WILL: Of course.

MARISHA: Physically or emotionally.

WILL: Nor me.

MARISHA: Okay.

WILL: Well, I'm glad we got that cleared up.

(laughter)

MATT: So as you guys approach the outside steps leading up to the doors of the Trial Forge, you can see the large rust red-colored monument, Temple to Kord. Very rigid and very much a temple built to withstand. It's a fortress more than a temple. And you see above it still, across the lip at the very top at the front walkway, a little bit of the Kord statue, looking over the entirety of this section of Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Oh boy.

MATT: The doors are actually ajar, they're open.

TRAVIS: Oh!

MATT: There are two Dawn Marshals there in their armor with the colors of Kord. As you approach, they step out of the way.

LAURA: Ooh.

TRAVIS: Yes, clearly my presence is recognized in this great hall. Good day, good day.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Wouldst thou care to follow me inside?

SAM: Let's do this.

LIAM: Verily, verily.

LAURA: Huzzah, I say, my Lord.

MARISHA: My liege.

MATT: As you walk in, the two Dawn Marshals that are out there put their arms together and they lower their head and bow. And as you enter, they close the doors behind you guys. The doors slam behind you and you feel the stone shift from the impact of the thud. 25-, 30-foot-tall doors that mark the front of this.

TRAVIS: It's all right. Pucker up, we're okay.

MATT: The echo of the stone slam down the long hall. You can see there are large pillars that mark the run to the central chamber. You've been here before, and as you walk across the smooth, very, very simple stonework ahead, you can see there is the central portion. It's almost like a giant cross, like both sides of the temple meet in the center. And there is a circular dip in the ground. Not really a pit, it's only about four feet down. But it's filled with a coarse sand, and as you guys walk up to that edge, each monk acknowledging you as you pass quietly, you can hear the gentle chanting in the distance of low, rumbling Gregorian voices, (chanting). And there, sitting in the center of this open circular sand patch, is the Earthbreaker himself. He is sitting there, legs crossed, arms resting at the edge of his knees, eyes closed. You can see, even from here for those who haven't seen him before, he wears simple free-flowing pants of a dark reddish color with a gold trim on the sides, but they're tattered towards the bottom. He has a one-shoulder wrap across the front there and these large prayer beads that hang around his neck. His skin is very dark and weathered by sun and training, and he is probably the most muscular human being you have seen for his proportional form, he is a human being built for discipline and physical martial training and battle. Older though, still you can see his long grey beard that rests about middle to his chest, the balding on the front a little bit, the rest of his grey hair rests to his mid-back, and he just sits there quietly in the center. The rest of the monks have gathered up and begun to form around the circle.

TRAVIS: How many monks, would you say?

MATT: Right now, about 15?

TRAVIS: One-five.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Are they talking at all or are they all super-quiet?

MATT: Super-quiet.

TRAVIS: I walk up to within 20 feet of Earthbreaker Groon.

MATT: Okay, so you leap down into the sandpit?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so, you guys on the side. Grog, you leap off.

TRAVIS: How deep is it lowered?

MATT: You don't know how deep it is, but it's, it's not, it's hard sand, it's packed, so you just kind of–

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I meant the depression, is it like a couple feet?

MATT: Right, the depression's like an inch.

TRAVIS: Okay, cool.

MATT: Oh, you mean the depression into the actual ground?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: About four feet.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit. Yeah. So.

MATT: So you vault into it in a bound.

TRAVIS: Does he move at all?

MATT: No. He's still facing a little bit away from you in the far corner.

TRAVIS: I put my fist in my hand and I bow slightly. Does he move at all?

MATT: The silence is broken immediately by a low, rumbling voice that seems to have no particular source in the vicinity where you stand. It says, “You come because your lands now harbor a terrible conflagration. How do you think Groon can assist?” Still facing away from you.

TRAVIS: We have traveled near and far, great Grood.

MARISHA: It's like Sesame Street.

TRAVIS: And we would like to request upon you a moment of your time?

WILL: Why is he doing the talking? Why is he doing the talking?

MATT: As most of you noticed this time, his name is Groon.

(laughter)

MATT: At which point he stands up, and, you know, would only come to about your sternum, height-wise, but he's just this tense, every muscle is seemingly, there's not an ounce of fat on this body and–

TRAVIS: Like a protein shake.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Paleo.

MATT: Turns around towards you and says, “You stray from the darkness that I warned you, but this current distraction is too great. Even your blood is drawn to the flames of promise and power. This shall be a test to see if you will break against the shadow.”

SAM: What shall be a test?

LAURA: What's the test?

MATT: “I know many things, Grog Strongjaw.”

TRAVIS: He said my full name.

MATT: “But such knowledge is earned, not given.”

MARISHA: (whispers) Shit, you might have to fight this motherfucker.

MATT: “Where do you find your strength?”

LIAM: (whispers) What's he talking about, Grog?

MATT: As you're thinking, in a blinding instant you see a flash of movement and, like a dagger in your stomach, his elbow is (impact sound).

(groaning)

MATT: Moved three feet in an instant and has slammed you right in the center of your abdomen. The breath just escapes you as you fall back, unable to really catch yourself, and just land flat on your back in the sand.

TRAVIS: (wheezing sounds)

MARISHA: We're all hanging back.

MATT: Puts his arm down.

MARISHA: Just watching.

MATT: “Strongjaw. Where do you find your strength?”

TRAVIS: In my anger.

MATT: “You walk between worlds. Weakness in mind or weakness in conviction. What do you stand for? Where do you find your strength?” At which point, as you're getting up, there's another blinding flash for a second and your feet are left out from under you. Go ahead and make an athletics check, because you're now prepared for this one.

WILL: Jeez.

TALIESIN: Gonna get smackdown.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: Your feet go out from under you as you slam onto your back, you just barely caught your breath before it's almost knocked out again. He's looking down at you this time, once again, his eyes just white. “Choose. Choose the two here who would save you.”

TRAVIS: (whispers) Pike's not here.

MATT: “Who would push you to your potential. Choose your bloody muses.”

SAM: Does he mean us, or?

TRAVIS: Do they have to be here?

MATT: He looks over to the rest of you on the side of the pit. “Choose.”

TRAVIS: (sighs) I choose my buddy Pike.

SAM: She's not here.

TRAVIS: I don't care, I just say it anyway. I choose Vax and I choose Scanlan.

SAM: We give him his strength, sir.

MATT: As you finish that sentence, two monks that you failed to notice were behind you shove both of you into the pit. Make acrobatics checks, both of you guys.

SAM: (laughing nervously) Not my kind of fight! Oh, I got a ten.

LIAM: 34.

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: You tumble, catch Grog's arm, and lift him onto his feet as you land yourself at his side. Scanlan is face-down in the sand.

SAM: Are we talking still?

LIAM: I would just like to point out that I am mostly sober.

MATT: Groon takes two steps back and just closes his eyes and puts his arms at his sides. “Now. Show me your conviction.”

MARISHA: Oh snap!

MATT: I need you three to roll initiative.

ALL: Oh!

LIAM: Natural 20! 25 off a natural 20!

WILL: Oh snap! Shit's getting real.

MATT: The statues that're set at the edge of this, we're gonna put you, Grog, there–

LAURA: Look at the coolness that's been created on this map!

MATT: And boom.

LAURA: So cool! This is awesome, Matt!

MARY: Look how little they are!

MATT: I'll just move it this way a little bit, just so you guys can see, there we go.

LIAM: I'm peeing just a little bit.

MARY: Oh my goodness.

LAURA: Hey you guys, don't die!

MATT: All right, so. Let me get Groon's sheet out here.

SAM: Is it just us against one person?

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: He's really strong.

MARISHA: He's gonna kick your guys's asses.

WILL: Can you see, do you want to switch seats so you can see? Okay.

SAM: No, I can see on the screen.

MATT: Okay, so. 25 to 20?

LIAM: 25 off a natural 20.

MATT: All right. 20 to 15?

TRAVIS: 19.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16, Scanlan. All right, perfect. First up's first. You, Vax. Just standing with his arm up.

LIAM: Click my Boots of Haste.

(laughter)

MARY: Click 'em hard!

LIAM: And use my bonus action to hide behind Grog's thigh and hold my turn.

MATT: Until what, what's your trigger?

LIAM: Until Grog moves towards the Earthbreaker.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: When he does it I'm gonna go with him and fight him if I can.

MATT: Well, your movement is in your turn, it's your action you have to hold.

LIAM: Oh boy. Oh boy.

MATT: So. Are you gonna wait behind him?

LIAM: Well, let me just think for ten seconds only.

MATT: Can't, you've got– dude.

LIAM: Yeah, okay, so, I use my bonus action to hide. Do I need to roll for that?

MATT: Yes, you do.

LIAM: Yeah. That's a–

LAURA: Ohh.

LIAM: No, that's fine, because remember, I'm me. So that is, that's a 25.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I guess behind Grog.

MATT: He has no idea where you are.

LIAM: No, I'm going to throw fucking daggers at this guy!

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Because I'm first. Oh my god. I am. First is 24?

MATT: 24 hits.

LIAM: And then, so I used my bonus action to hide, which means I can do two, right? So the second is not that great.

TRAVIS: I don't know what you're so worried about.

LIAM: Using Luck. Better. Second is a 30.

MATT: Yeah, both hit.

LIAM: Okay, now. This is, I'm the first to attack, which means that it is– Ooh, it's a 19.

MATT: What's the range increment on this?

LIAM: I'm Sharpshooter, man.

MATT: Right, but what's the max range?

LIAM: 60.

MATT: Yeah, you're fine.

LIAM: Okay, so. I'm hidden behind Grog so it should be sneak attack, and I'm the first to go so it's a crit.

MATT: You're the first to go, it is a crit. It is not a sneak attack.

LIAM: It's not a sneak attack? Even though I used my bonus to hide behind Grog's big fat leg?

MATT: Where could you possibly be, Vax?

LIAM: He's huge! All right, okay.

MATT: Where could you have possibly hidden from his sight in the middle of this giant open sandy arena?

WILL: He's disappeared!

LIAM: I'm drunk and fighting in a pit!

MATT: It's okay. But it is double damage.

LIAM: All right, all right. So there is no sneak attack, but it is crit, right? Because I'm the first to attack?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Well no, it's surprise, not the first to attack. He is not surprised.

LIAM: He's not surprised.

MATT: No. It's not first, it's just surprised.

LIAM: Oh god. I'm drunk, tell me what's going on.

MATT: You hit him twice, roll damage.

MARISHA: I know, I'm so confused.

LIAM: One plus seven's eight, and then eight. Eight and eight.

LAURA: (laughs) That's almost as good as all those other things you did today.

MATT: The first one, he deflects with his hand and it cuts the arm and you can see the little slash of damage it dealt. The second one, he's gonna use his reaction to do deflect missiles.

MARISHA: That's cool. That's some Bruce Lee shit.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah. He reduces the damage entirely, spends one of his ki points, he catches the dagger and throws it right back at you.

LIAM: Okay, I'm gonna use Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: Not back at you, though. Because you're currently behind Grog.

SAM: Hi!

(laughter)

LAURA: Are you still face-down in the sand?

SAM: What's going on?

MATT: That's 18 to hit.

SAM: That hits.

MATT: Okay. So you take 12 points of piercing damage. As he chucks Vax's dagger back at you, it sinks into your shoulder suddenly before it vanishes and returns to your belt.

LIAM: Oh, I'm sorry.

SAM: All I've heard was “Scanlan.'”

(laughter)

SAM: “My buddy Scanlan.”

MARISHA: (laughs) That's true, that is all you heard.

MATT: All right. Now it is Groon's turn. Groon is going to rush up to the front of Grog– actually no, to the side here so you're both in combat, technically, and is going to make a flurry of blows attack using another one of his ki points. So that's gonna be four attacks, all against you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: So that's a 27, hits, I'm pretty sure. Cocked. 26.

TRAVIS: (laughing) 27 and 26?

MATT: 16?

TRAVIS: Oh, it misses!

(laughter)

MATT: And 28.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that hits too.

MARISHA: What the fuck is this guy's base? What?

WILL: This is when you want to be fighting Wil Wheaton.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, you take–

TALIESIN: He's doing a lot of math.

MATT: 31 points of bludgeoning damage. And his kick just– whack!– right across the jaw. You haven't even raged yet, and the pain is intense, your vision goes white for a second. And go ahead and make a dex saving throw.

LAURA: Oh man!

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: As his fourth action, sweeps your feet out from under you and you are knocked prone on the ground.

MARISHA: Oh, shit. This guy's a badass.

LAURA: He gets four actions?

MARISHA: Monks, man.

MATT: That's his turn. Grog, you're up now.

WILL: And we can't do anything?

TALIESIN: Well, if you want to get involved.

TRAVIS: (panting) I. Would like. To rage. I'd like to stand up, please.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Do I have to roll for that?

MATT: No no no, you just use half your movement for that.

TRAVIS: I take out Craven Edge, and I'd like to swing twice against him.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: That's a 25?

MATT: 25 hits.

TRAVIS: 25 hits, that's good. And a 17.

MATT: Misses.

TRAVIS: Misses. 18. 21 points of damage.

MATT: 21 points of damage. All righty.

TRAVIS: And roll for the DC.

MATT: Yeah, he makes it.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

MATT: (laughs) Sorry. All right, so.

TRAVIS: Can I move, or is getting up my movement?

MATT: You can move, yeah.

TRAVIS: I want to move around, just stay right next to him, but move around behind him.

MATT: Right there, you mean?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Vax is there, then that would be your flanking potential there. Okay. Cool. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Did Grog moving activate Vax? Didn't you hold your turn or something?

LAURA: No, he didn't.

WILL: He chucked knives.

SAM: I'll stand up out of the sand. And I will, eeeee, I will–

(laughter)

SAM: I will look extremely weak and I will sing a song to him.

(laughter)

SAM: I will attempt to cast, with the horn, Eyebite on him, and I'll sing, (singing) My my my, eye bitten twice shy.

(laughter)

WILL: Wow. Best fight ever.

MATT: All righty, and that is Eyebite. All right, so it's a– you said wisdom save?

SAM: It's a wisdom save.

MATT: All right. What's the DC?

SAM: It's 19.

MATT: No, he fails it. So what are you doing?

SAM: This is a good question. I don't know what to do. Should I make him fall asleep? I think no. Because we want this fight to continue, that would sort of end it, won't it?

LAURA: Do whatever you want, I dunno.

WILL: That's a great look.

TALIESIN: Do something funny.

SAM: Yeah, I want him to go to sleep in the sand.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

SAM: Just curl up in the fetal position.

MATT: Okay. Okay, what happens is, as soon as you move around, Grog, and you sing at him? He glances over at you for a second and his eyes roll back and he (impact sound) and just falls back in the sand, unconscious.

LIAM: Scanlan Shorthalt.

MARY: Ladies and gentlemen.

SAM: That was a quick fight.

MATT: At which point, all the monks currently are gasping in immediate reaction.

(laughter)

MATT: As he's currently unconscious and affected by Eyebite. All right, do you want to move or are you staying where you are on your turn? Bonus action?

SAM: I mean, he can't swipe at me if I walk away, so I'm gonna get away from him. Although he can move super fast. I'll walk a little bit away.

TRAVIS: Now in the middle of the room.

SAM: And I'll inspire Grog, in case this fight continues, and I will sing–

MATT: Actually, you know what? No, go ahead. I forgot to read something. Go ahead. My own fault.

SAM: I will sing: (singing) Hail to the goliaths, hail victory, blood on the warpath, fight for Vax and me.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's the best.

MATT: Take your d10.

SAM: (whispers) That's the Redskins' fight song.

(yelling)

LIAM: That is amazing!

TALIESIN: Thank you, that was genius.

TRAVIS: I ain't using it.

(yelling)

MARY: As the worlds collide.

MATT: That ends Scanlan's turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Grog, Grog, Grog, do we really want to do this? He's down, he's asleep!

SAM: What do we do?

LIAM: Are we doing this, are we really doing this? He's asleep.

TRAVIS: What, like, so if we hit him, does he wake up?

SAM: He will, but you get, you'll get a few licks in.

LIAM: We're not trying to kill him, we want him to work with us.

TRAVIS: You fucking end him and you end him now.

SAM: Yeah, kill him.

LIAM: Excuse me? All right, so, I use disen– no, I don't have to.

SAM: No, he's asleep.

LIAM: Yeah, okay. So I got two daggers in my hands, and they spin around in my hand, and I just start beating him in the head.

MATT: All right, go for it.

SAM: I assume this is a sneak attack since he can't see it.

LIAM: Yes, it is, because Grog's right there.

SAM: He will wake up after this.

LIAM: 21.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but he might not hit him anyway, he rolls for it.

SAM: I don't know, actually.

MATT: As you go and attempt to strike him– You had advantage on the attacks, by the way, because he's on the ground.

LIAM: Oh, well then it is a 32.

MATT: Okay. Good. That hits.

LIAM: And then the second one is a 27 and the third one is a 17.

MATT: First two hit.

LIAM: First two hit, and the first one is sneak attack with the blunt edge.

MATT: Right. Which is doubled because he's unconscious.

LIAM: Yeah it is.

MATT: Melee attack within five feet.

LIAM: Oh, I'm so sorry! Nine. Plus– Whoa. That is ten, 16, 22, 23, 25, is 50? Plus the– 59. 59 for the first.

MATT: 59. Hoo.

LIAM: Ooh, that's the wrong one. And then the second dagger does ten.

MATT: Ten. So as you– whack!– hit him in the head, he immediately comes back to consciousness.

LIAM: And I'm gonna use my movement to run around and to roll around behind Grog's buttocks.

MATT: Okay. As you move aside, even on the ground, prone, he swings his leg out to try and catch you as you're running past.

LIAM: Acrobatics?

MATT: He has disadvantage on this anyway. That is still a 24 to hit.

LIAM: To hit? Oh, that's an attack. Even though he was unconscious?

MATT: Well, he woke up after you slammed him, second attack hits, and in reaction as he sees you rush off, he kicks his leg up and manages to catch you.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm feeling that.

MATT: It doesn't manage to trip you, but it does deal–

LIAM: Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: So you deal half the damage on that. All right. So you take– What would be 12 points of damage, you take six points of bludgeoning damage.

LIAM: Ah, fucking ankle. Come on.

WILL: It was still uncanny.

MATT: It was quite uncanny. All right, that ends your turn?

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: All right. It's now his turn. All right, so.

LIAM: I'm so acrobatic.

TRAVIS: We're waiting to see if he's awake or not.

MATT: So yeah, until the spell ends, you can use your action every turn to try and give him another effect if you wanted to, Scanlan. So he still has Eyebite, but he's conscious.

SAM: Can I change the effect, or does it always have to be–

MATT: You can if you want to, when it comes to your next turn, but it has to be on your turn to use your action to do it. He gets up using half his movement. Which is fine. He's going to, as he looks over and you can see him glance to the side of Grog and see where you are, as the giant crack in the side of his head and the blood that's trickling down the side of his face, he just rushes around, still in melee with you so he doesn't get an attack of opportunity, and he's gonna go unarmed attacks on you for three. Natural 20. That's a 17.

LIAM: No.

MATT: With your haste, yeah, you get a bonus, so that's a miss. And that is a 25.

LIAM: That hits. Two of those hit.

MATT: All right. So the crit, 28 points of bludgeoning damage. And the last one is gonna be 14 points of bludgeoning damage. And he's going to use three ki points. As he comes around, elbows you to the side of the face, you just weren't expecting it and it cracks you and you feel like a tooth crack and the pain sears through your jaw and you're like, ugh! And then he brings his lower hand and (impact) hits you right in the center of the abdomen, and it hits you, and it hurts, but it's not as impactful as you thought it would be for the force, but you feel like this strange, like, quivering vibration in your midsection, like almost like the muscles are spasming uncontrollably and you don't quite understand why. That is going to end his turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: No! And I go into a frenzied rage. If it's gonna be an ass-beating we take, we might as well just get on with it. And I'll use reckless attack and Great Weapon Master against him.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TRAVIS: Which means he gets advantage on everything against me, but fuck it, he's hitting anyway. Oh, 19, so close. 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TRAVIS: 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: Misses.

TRAVIS: Damn it. Those were high. Okay.

LAURA: You could've used your inspiration.

SAM: It's true.

TRAVIS: I'm not listening to any of you.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: 32 on the first one.

MATT: Nice.

WILL: That's hysterical. RG3 could've helped.

TRAVIS: Four, nine, 17, 27 on the second one, and the third one missed.

MATT: Third missed, all right. Succeeds on the first save with an 18– and a 19, yeah. Saves both hits from Craven Edge. As you slam the blade into him twice, he's trying to parry them, and he's catching the blade off to the side, but the strength is too strong and you end up jamming it into his forearm. As you pull away, the blood streaks out. Each hit, he's still focused on you, and he's not showing any pain, he's not grimacing. You're just seeing the wounds being had and he's just still intent on moving and his expression focused on you.

TRAVIS: He made both those checks okay?

MATT: Yeah. And at that moment he looks at you and says, “You carry such a dark weapon with you.” That's all he says. Is that the end of your turn?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Scanlan.

SAM: He's still eyebitten.

MATT: Correct, yes. Actually, let's see, he has to save at the end of his turn. Which, he rolled a one, so no.

SAM: All right. Instead of sleeping this time, I would like him to just get sick. Be sick. I want him to be sick now.

MARY: What kind of sick?

LAURA: Like, pukey or like the other one?

SAM: Oh, he has like diarrhea.

MARISHA: That's the worst.

LAURA: Oh man. That's so embarrassing.

MATT: All righty. Yeah. As you keep focusing, you can see his form shifts a little bit, and you swear you hear the cramping of someone's abdominals in the distance, like an unhappy digestive tract.

SAM: You didn't sleep well, did you? No?

LIAM: Like a tree cracking in the wind from this guy.

SAM: And I will turn to Vax this time and inspire him, and I will say, (singing) Kill that monk-y douchebag, white boy. Kill that monk-y douchebag right. Take out your daggers and kill that monk-y douchebag 'til he dies.

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d10 inspiration.

LIAM: Okay, got it, got it, got it.

MATT: All right, that brings us to the top. Is that the end of your turn, are you gonna move or anything else–

SAM: I'll move a little further away, it won't really help.

MATT: All right. You're up.

LIAM: He's still pressed up against Grog, right?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: All right, I'm gonna use disengage and pivot around Grog, right, run all around the circle and get behind Scanlan.

SAM: Oh shit. I was trying to get away from him!

MATT: Like that?

LIAM: Yeah. And I'm gonna throw two daggers at him, yeah. The first one's, okay, natural 20! Wait, it's natural 20 on top of a sneak attack, what happens?

MATT: Yeah, you double the sneak-attack damage.

LIAM: You double the sneak-attack?

MATT: It's a critical hit, all the dice you roll for a critical hit you double.

TRAVIS: Picked you for a reason, add that shit up, man.

MATT: And then you add the ability modifier at the end. So yes.

LIAM: Let me take a moment.

(laughter)

MATT: Rogues, baby.

MARISHA: Get the blood back in your head.

LIAM: Okay, that's a nine. Okay. Think I want to savor this.

WILL: He looks giddy, he looks giddy, it's great.

LIAM: All right. So. Oh my god. (counting)

TRAVIS: It's so juicy, so savory.

LIAM: 23 doubled, quadrupled–

MATT: Not quadrupled. Doubled.

LIAM: 23. 28.

MATT: It's doubled, not quadrupled.

LIAM: Not quadrupled, oh! So sneak attack is not doubled, then on top– All right.

MARISHA: But that's what you said. That's not what you said!

MATT: It's not a surprise attack.

LIAM: So it doesn't stack.

MATT: No.

LIAM: Yeah, but he's, he's up against Grog. So I get–

MATT: Which is meaning you get sneak attack. So you're doing sneak-attack damage on him, you critically hit, so you just double your sneak attack damage.

SAM: Just take your 80 points of damage, not your 160 points.

LIAM: So I double sneak-attack damage.

MATT: Yeah. You said quadruple, it's not quadruple, it's just times two.

LIAM: 23, the sneak-attack damage is–

LAURA: That's 28. Times two.

LIAM: 56. All right. Yeah.

MARY: That's good, there's no disappointment there.

TALIESIN: And now you add your knife.

LIAM: 68.

MATT: Oh, total of 68? Gotcha.

LIAM: Critical hit on a sneak attack. Got it, got it, got it.

MATT: He is going to use a ki point to deflect missiles.

LIAM: I'm gonna use my last bit of Luck so that he has to roll again.

MATT: Okay. All right. It's not an attack roll on this yet, just so you're aware.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: This is him just reducing the damage he takes from it.

LIAM: Oh, all right.

MATT: So that is a total of, he reduces the damage by 13, he still takes the impact, but he manages to slow the blade with his hands before it finds itself in his chest and he rips it out, you can see the spray of blood that hits in the sand across the front before the dagger disappears from his grip.

LIAM: And I duck behind Scanlan.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Don't hide behind me!

LIAM: Yeah, sure. It's, that was a four, ten.

MATT: Nope. This one–

LIAM: No, I rolled, I rolled a bunch of times. Didn't I roll a bunch of times? Okay, all right, well. She rolled a 20.

MATT: For nothing.

LIAM: I rolled a, oh that did fine. It's a 27.

MATT: Wait, so you did a total of 60-something damage on him from the one attack?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, got you, yes, the second one does–

LIAM: Second one is ten.

MATT: Yeah. So the second one attack hits. Go ahead and roll for it. Or roll for damage.

LIAM: Nine.

MATT: Nine, okay. Cool. Cool.

LIAM: I'm scared to death, which is why the math is so bad.

MATT: That's good. Well, as it comes back to Groon's turn, Groon, you can see the blood is just pouring out of the wound that you left, he takes one hand and just (impact sound) slams it really hard, and it just kind of, the impact sears the wound. Cauterizing it.

LIAM: Don't want to be fighting you.

MATT: Still looking at you. He puts his hand out and does this, and that quivering in your stomach you felt earlier begins to shake and the vibrations begin to spread through your entire body. I need you to make a constitution saving throw? Yeah.

SAM: You've got inspiration still.

LAURA: Does that work on saves?

LIAM: Plus inspiration.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: It's a 23.

MATT: 23. That is a success. You manage to just stave it off as you can feel it about to tear your insides apart, and you just tense real fast and the vibrations slowly fade. No effect.

SAM: No effect!

MATT: Would've been 10d10 necrotic damage.

SAM: 10d10!

MARISHA: What happened, like a chestburster, like came out of him?

MATT: It's called Quivering Palm, it's a monk ability.

LIAM: It's Uma Thurman, it's fucking Kill Bill.

MARISHA and WILL: The five-point exploding palm technique.

MATT: He's going to use another ki point, a bonus action, as he goes into a defensive stance, a familiar one that you've seen before.

TRAVIS: Before I whooped somebody's ass.

MATT: Yeah. But into this fully defensive, looking about and keeping his eyes aware of the entirety of his surroundings. And is going to stay right there. That brings us to Grog.

TRAVIS: Piece of shit, I don't know what that stance is– I chop at him some more with Craven Edge! I don't know, can I do one Great Weapon Master and the other two just regular?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay. I'm gonna do that.

MATT: Are you doing reckless attacks or not?

TRAVIS: Yeah, reckless.

MATT: Okay. His patient defense gives you disadvantage on all attacks– He just nullifies it, so you just have one roll per attack.

TRAVIS: 16?

MATT: Misses. Just knocks the blade out with his own hand, you hear it (impact) off to the side.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: This time he actually catches with the two sides of his hand and throws it back towards you.

SAM: You could be inspired, god damn it!

MARY: It's right there.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna use my other d10 that's not tainted, so not this one.

SAM: All you have to do is pledge allegiance to the Washington football team.

(laughter)

WILL: Wow.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: 27. He goes to try and catch it, but you change the direction of the blade at the last minute and find the side of his flesh, go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Okay. So 12. 19.

MATT: He does make his save on that.

TRAVIS: 29. Damn it, he does?

MATT: 29 damage.

TRAVIS: 29. All that.

MATT: He's got a decent constitution.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you think?

MATT: All right, so the third blade finally sinks in about two inches into his clavicle area and probably would snap the clavicle bone if he hadn't put his hands up and caught as much of the impact as he could, and then throws it back again and just kicks you away to get a little bit of distance.

TRAVIS: Shit, really? Little distance, or?

MATT: It's just like a foot, just away from being clenched up.

TRAVIS: Okay. Can I move opposite of where my two lads are so I stay behind him again?

MATT: Right there? Yeah, you can do that. Go for it. All right, that ends your turn?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Scanlan, you're up. Well, let me see actually if he resists the– Nope.

SAM: Still sick.

MATT: Actually, actually no, remembering this, because I kept forgetting to do it before, but that's fine, he's gonna use his legendary resistance to automatically succeed, so he no longer has Eyebite.

SAM: Oh, so he's done.

LAURA: He's not shitting himself anymore.

MARY: No. But the stench is great.

MATT: So sickness fades. He spent last round not doing any actual physical attacks for that reason.

SAM: All right. Well. I'm far away from him, but Grog's right next to him, so I probably shouldn't do anything too terrible.

TRAVIS: Do it! Do it!

LIAM: But he's a sponge!

TRAVIS: Do it! If you don't do it, he will, do it.

MARISHA: That's why we have Grog around.

SAM: I'll join in the bludgeon-fest, and I will cast (sings) Bigby's Hand! And I will, I'll make it come right next to him, sort of between him and Grog? I can't get between him and Grog.

MATT: There you go. Not between them, no, but you can put it like next to him or behind him.

SAM: Okay. To the side, to the side would be good. And just punch! Just a couple punches. Just throwing some punches.

TALIESIN: Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself.

MATT: Make a melee spell attack.

SAM: Melee spell attack.

MATT: Got it, melee spell attack.

SAM: What do I add?

MATT: You add your spell attack modifier, which should be on your spell page.

LIAM: On your same page, your spell page.

SAM: Spell attack bonus– Okay. 27.

MATT: 27, that's a hit. As the hand appears to his right, he's still focusing on Grog and glances over for a second and tries to do a deflection, technically he's still in his defense stance, though. So roll twice, because he does have disadvantage for attacks on him.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's good.

SAM: That was a natural 20.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: But the disadvantage, so the 27. Yes. Oh wait, now I roll for damage.

MATT: Yep.

SAM: With Bigby's Hand. I rarely do this.

TRAVIS: That's true, yeah.

MATT: 4d8 force damage.

SAM: 4d8.

LAURA: You need to do that more, that's pretty good.

LIAM: Come on, Scanbo.

SAM: I'll just roll this one four times, it's fine. 17?

MATT: 17 damage.

SAM: 4d8, right?

MATT: Yep. So as Bigby's Hand pulls back with a giant fist, the fingers cracking in an arcane echo, whack! Slams into his side, he holds himself strong and actually slides about seven inches in the sand from the impact. And you can see him shake off his arm from the hit. Yeah, that hurt.

SAM: Decent, decent. And I will inspire Grog again, with a little ditty, I will say, (singing) You're a psycho killer, with a bearded face, Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog. Run r– That's fine.

MATT: All right, take your d10.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I just drop to my knees so I can aim better and right over Scanlan's shoulder, dagger, dagger, dagger.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Okay, first one is a one. So that misses. Second one is a 23.

MATT: 23. You're rolling disadvantage on all these, right?

LIAM: Disadvantage? For what?

MATT: For all these attacks, because he's still in his patient defense stance.

LIAM: Oh shite.

MATT: So what was this roll you just got–

LIAM: Well, the first one was a one and a–

MATT: Yeah, first one missed. The second one was a 23 and what did you roll?

LIAM: I don't remember what it was. Sorry.

MATT: Roll again, it's fine.

LIAM: All right, so this is the second attack. That is a 17.

MATT: Misses.

LIAM: Third attack is a 21.

MATT: 21 misses.

(groaning)

MATT: So all three daggers come at him and he just dodges one right off the head, another one he parries out of the way, and the third one he does a crescent kick– whack!– and knocks the dagger out of the air that spins off to the side before it returns to your belt.

LIAM: And just under my breath I say, “So fucking cool.”

(laughter)

MATT: At the end of your turn before it's his turn he's gonna go ahead and use one action point to use Like the Wind, where he moves his speed without taking attacks of opportunity. He turns and rushes up to Scanlan.

SAM: I'm a little boy!

MATT: Starting his turn, now, he's gonna come for you, Scanlan, he's gonna go ahead and do a flurry of blows against you.

LAURA: Oh no, Scanlan!

MATT: So. Scanlan. First attack is 29.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: Natural one, fails on the second one.

SAM: Okay, I'll use Cutting Words on the last one.

MATT: Okay, well the third one is a 20. And the fourth one is a 31.

TRAVIS: Jesus.

MATT: So three hits.

SAM: But I'm using Cutting Words on the third one to try to–

LIAM: You said the last one.

SAM: No, I said the third one.

MARISHA: It doesn't matter, they all suck.

MATT: Whichever one you want. So the first one hits, Cutting Words to reduce the attack on the–

SAM: On the one that was a 20.

MATT: Yeah. So go ahead and roll your d10.

SAM: Okay. Six.

MATT: Six. What's your AC?

SAM: 17.

MATT: Yeah, no, so you manage to, what do you shout at him as he's doing these punches against you?

SAM: I sing, (singing) No no no no, don't phunk with my heart!

(laughter)

MATT: He cocks his head like a confused puppy for a second and the fist just hits air above your head.

TRAVIS: You've gotta be kidding me, man.

MATT: However, you do take 14 points of bludgeoning damage from the first strike, and another 14 points of bludgeoning damage, so a total of 28 points of bludgeoning damage from two hits. Go ahead and make a dex saving throw, if you could.

SAM: Dex, dex, dex.

TALIESIN: Four.

SAM: 16. Oh, plus four? Really? Okay. Oh, yeah. Saw that for some reason there's a plus four there. 20.

MATT: 20's what you need. His last hit, he's trying to kick you square in the chest and knock you off your feet, and while it hits you, it actually forces you back into Vax, and Vax holds you up and you manage to keep on your feet.

LIAM: Whoa, buddy.

SAM: Oh, hi. I'm between two strong men.

LIAM: Debatable.

SAM: I'm lucky Pierre.

MATT: Or no, it's Grog's turn, it's Grog's turn, because you just took yours, yeah.

TRAVIS: It's my turn? Yeah, I just keep swinging away.

MATT: So you're gonna move up to him?

TRAVIS: Yes, please.

MATT: Oh, and as a note, I need you to make a concentration check for both of those hits, they were 14 damage each, so, and you have Warcaster, right?

SAM: Oh, yes. Oh yes.

MATT: So go ahead and make constitution checks. Constitution. Let me look at this.

SAM: That's 11 plus two is 13, right? Not great, not great. And 14. 13 and 14.

MATT: Okay, yeah, that's gonna end concentration, Bigby's Hand off the table.

SAM: (gasps) Bigby's Hand is gone.

MATT: Too much damage for you on that one. So from the impact of the blows you just managed, the spell fizzles from your mind and the hand dissipates into the distance. All right, now, Grog.

TRAVIS: At the end of his turn, did he go back into his defensive pose?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Okay, great. Okay, so, reckless attack. That's, let's make it Great Weapon Master with the inspiration. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MATT: You've gotta say Great Weapon Master before you roll, by the way.

TRAVIS: Should I do it for the next one, then?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay. So that one didn't.

MATT: Because it can't be like, oh, that doesn't hit, I'm not gonna do Great Weapon Master yet, you have to get the penalty before you roll.

TRAVIS: Right, that makes sense. Right. So it was a 29, no, I mean it wasn't. What?

MATT: You said it was a 24, for that one it would've been a twenty— it hit regardless.

TRAVIS: Okay. Hit regardless.

MATT: So yeah. So the first one was just a regular hit.

TRAVIS: So we'll do the third one will be Great Weapon Master. This is disadvantage. Come on, where are the damn crits? 20.

MATT: 20 misses.

TRAVIS: Yep, okay, this is Great Weapon Master. With adva– with the inspiraton.

MATT: Yeah. So.

TRAVIS: 28? No, minus five. 23.

MATT: 23 just hits.

(cheering)

MATT: So a regular hit, and then a Great Weapon Master hit.

TRAVIS: Okay. Six, 11, 19 is the first one.

MATT: 19 damage, all right.

TRAVIS: Fuck. Nine, 17, 27.

MATT: 27, got it. Both of the strikes, makes his save, makes his save.

TRAVIS: (sputters) Not once?

MATT: It's a 12 DC, it's not a very hard DC for–

TRAVIS: Yeah, but he's gotta roll shitty sometimes.

MATT: He probably will eventually. So anyway. As you're striking the blades at him, the pain, he's just taking the pain to his back, now, because he's facing Scanlan, and both times hack into the back of his shoulderblades and the exposed muscle you can see as the blade draws back you can see the muscle and the blood arcing after each draw of the weapon. However, he glances over his shoulder at you as you finish your second blow and at the end of your turn he's gonna use two action points to use Whirlwind of Blows–

TRAVIS: Can I move? Oh, I already moved.

MATT: You already moved, yeah. I mean, you can keep moving if you wanted to move away.

TRAVIS: I wanted to move in between him and Scanlan, just wrap around.

MATT: You can't move between, but you can get there if you want.

TRAVIS: Okay, that'd be good.

MATT: Okay. So he's gonna get an attack on everyone within range of his punches, which would be you and Scanlan. That is gonna be a 26 against you.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: And a natural 20 against Scanlan.

SAM: That doesn't hit. That doesn't hit.

(laughter)

MATT: First to you, Grog, that is 18 points of bludgeoning damage. Halved to nine. And Scanlan, that is six, no, sorry– 24 points of bludgeoning damage.

SAM: Ah, that's not bad. I'll be fine.

MATT: All right. Now it's Scanlan's turn.

SAM: Oh, shit, I get to do more shit?

TRAVIS: Where you at?

SAM: I'm fine.

TALIESIN: Looking a little rough.

SAM: Fine. Monk's got nothing on me.

MATT: So last turn you missed all three on him, remember?

LIAM: Oh, thanks.

SAM: So he's right next to me, he's right next to all of us. Okay. Well, I will– he's right next to me?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: And no one's behind him. So I will just Lightning Bolt him. From right there. Can I do that?

MATT: You can, yeah. So as you're there in front, you just reach back–

SAM: Oh, I've got something in my pocket, (yells).

(laughter)

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: You let the lightning out of the bottle.

MATT: What's the DC? I imagine this was out of your–

SAM: Is this my spell DC? So 19.

MATT: 19 with the hand cone, so you were like, hup, yaaaa!

SAM: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: 19.

TALIESIN: Need some d6's, man?

MATT: He's going to use another of his legendary resistances to make the save. And he has evasion, which means dex save for half, he gets no damage on his success, so as you do Lightning Bolt, he literally just goes into the splits as the bolt streaks over his head.

LIAM: He Van Damme'd it!

MATT: Slams one of the nearby pillars, and as you realize that, you look down at him as he squeezes his legs back together and lands right back on his feet.

WILL: Oh, god. He took no Van Damme-age.

(laughter)

SAM: He's fast as lightning. Damn it.

MATT: Is that your turn?

SAM: I mean, that's all I can do. You know what, I'll use my bonus action to heal myself a bit.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

SAM: I'll use Healing Word on myself at third level. So that's two, 3d4 plus five, right? Ten, ten plus five. Ten plus five. Okay, 15. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, I'll take that.

MATT: Sure, go for it. All right, that ends your turn, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: You might already know this, but I'm wearing my Cloak of Displacement, so he should be at disadvantage to hit me.

MATT: Good to know going forward.

LIAM: Yeah, thanks. I want to use one action to grab Scanlan by his purple shirt and rip him and pull him away.

MATT: That's gonna be your action.

LIAM: Sure.

MATT: So you won't have any attacks this round.

LIAM: With Boots of Haste on?

MATT: In order to get the additional, well, actually no, you would get one attack from the haste. You would. Your offhand attack you don't get unless you're doing an attack action, so you get one attack.

LIAM: That's fine, that's fine, I rip him, I yank him away and throw the little bugger.

SAM: As I fly through the air, I'm looking up to see if Kashaw's putting any moves on Keyleth or anything.

WILL: Great fight, man!

MARISHA: (screaming)

WILL: Great fight!

MARISHA: Oh god!

LIAM: And then throw a dagger past Grog at him. For– not that great. 19.

MATT: 19?

LIAM: 19, that's it.

MATT: Misses, yeah.

LIAM: Okay, so I threw him, I threw a dagger and missed, and I just juke to the right and get behind Grog.

MATT: Okay. So move there. At the end of your turn, he's gonna use his last action point to do an unarmed attack against Grog. That's gonna be a 21?

TRAVIS: Pretty sure.

MATT: It hits? Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah, pretty sure.

MATT: You take ten points of bludgeoning damage.

TRAVIS: Halved to five.

MATT: Half. He's gonna use another ki point to, I need you to make a constitution save.

TRAVIS: Okay. 17.

MATT: 17. As he turns back and slams his fist right in the center of your clavicle, you feel a crack in the sternum and your whole body, all your muscles just seize up and you are currently stunned from a stunning strike until the end of his next turn.

LIAM: We got this, guys.

MATT: However, it's now his next turn.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: But you're still stunned. He is now going to, since you don't have a threat to him, he's going to swing around, jump between the two of them, and he's gonna do a flurry of blows, two punches against each of you. Against Scanlan, that's a 17?

SAM: That's my armor class, 17.

MATT: That hits, okay. Second one is a 17 again.

SAM: Can I use my Cutting Words on that one?

MATT: Do you have any more uses of your bardic inspiration?

SAM: It's once per turn.

MATT: You have a limited number of bardic inspirations per short rest that you can use, and you've used quite a few this battle.

SAM: Oh, that's considered a bardic inspiration, my Cutting Words?

MATT: Yeah, you use one of those dice to reduce the damage. You've inspired at least–

LIAM: Me once, Grog once–

MATT: Grog twice now.

SAM: It says, bardic inspiration, no that's not it, is it? 1d10, is that, five?

TALIESIN: Five, you have five of those.

MATT: So this would be your last one.

SAM: Okay, I'm using it.

MATT: All right, go for it.

SAM: It's a d10, yeah?

TALIESIN: Yeah. Although to be fair, it doesn't matter what you roll.

MATT: It doesn't matter what you roll, you're still.

SAM: Hey, I rolled a six.

MATT: Okay, so one of the attacks, as he's coming for you, he hits you once, and as he rears back for another kick to the side of your head, you shout–

SAM: Don't hit me, I'm a little boy!

(laughter)

MATT: Just enough pause for you to duck out of the way. However, he uses that inertia to spin back on Vax for a 27.

LIAM: Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: And a 21.

LIAM: That hits.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: So first one Uncanny Dodge, second one full brunt.

MATT: So Scanlan, you take nine points of bludgeoning damage.

SAM: Not bad.

MATT: Vex, you take, ah–

LIAM: I'm Vax.

MATT: Sorry, Vax. Every now and then.

LIAM: Every time.

MATT: 14 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half.

LIAM: Seven. Yeah.

MATT: And the other one is nine points.

LIAM: Nine points.

MATT: Yep.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: So a total of 16 points of damage. He's going to use a ki point again, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Okay. It's gonna be great. 14.

MATT: 14. Towards the end of his turn, Grog's stun shifts off of him, you feel your muscles tense up and you almost fall to your knees as your whole body seizes, the muscles just lock in place. All righty. Grog, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna take Craven Edge and I'm gonna stab him into the sand. And I'm gonna take out the Firebrand Warhammer instead.

MATT: Okay. So you drop the weapon for free, you pull out the fire hammer and it bursts into flame in your hands as you wield it. As you drop Craven Edge, you hear this voice scream in the back of your head, “You fool! This fight is ours!” As the hammer lights up, you just feel this cold dread run down your spine. I need you to make a will saving throw. A wisdom saving throw.

TRAVIS: Ten?

MATT: Ten? You can't possibly let that blade go away, and you drop the hammer and pick up Craven Edge once more. This is the true weapon of a warrior.

TRAVIS: You're right, it is.

(laughter)

MATT: And you are not gonna relinquish it. There is no way you could let go of this blade.

TRAVIS: No way at all. Reckless attack on all three swings.

MATT: Okay. The process of picking it up, we'll say would take away your bonus action. So you get two attacks.

TRAVIS: 14. That sucks. That's better. 27.

MATT: Second one hits.

TRAVIS: Okay. Ow. Six, 11, 19.

MATT: 19, all righty. This time as the hammer falls to the ground the flames go out and Craven Edge streaks again, no, makes his saving throw. As it hits him, he stops for a second, puts his hands together. I need you to make another wisdom saving throw.

(dramatic music cue)

WILL: Ooh, we're Star Trek fighting.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: Your vision goes dark as all the sight around you goes to black and the entire vicinity of this fades except for the Earthbreaker before you, just staring at you in this darkness. Then he steps towards you, one step, second step, and while his mouth doesn't move, you can hear his voice piercing into your head that just says, “Grog. You are stronger than this thing that binds you. Where do you find your strength?”

TRAVIS: In my friends.

MATT: The darkness around you immediately shatters and you can see now your friends off to the side, keeping their weapons ready. The entirety of Groon's posture has dropped, and he just bows before you.

(cheering)

MARY: Yes! Yes!

WILL: Wow.

MATT: At this point, he takes a moment and closes his eyes, and you can see there's this inner glow in his chest, and a bunch of his wounds heal up in but an instant. And as those wounds leave these scars, he looks across the body. “I will wear these with pride.”

SAM: (strained) So will I.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, fuck. Zahra! Did you see how awesome that was? I was really good.

MARY: That was wonder– you still have a little sand right there.

MATT: At this point, he, Groon's not even looking at you guys, still looking at Grog, he goes, “You need not the strength of Vasselheim to aid you, nor is that strength any we have to give. What you need can be found, recovered, reborn. I can see in your face the path is already lying before you. I know of two. The rest you must find yourself. A gift from Kord himself to this mortal plane, carved from the corpse of the earth primordial titan that fell on this continent in the first war. These Titanstone Knuckles were a symbol of power and leadership for generations here in Vasselheim until the last known keeper was slain 200 years ago, the gauntlets taken. I know not of their whereabouts. The other, leathers adorned by the champion of the Raven Queen. This champion's tomb has since come to ruin, sunken beneath a lake to the west of here known as the Marrowglade Loch. Within that tomb lies the Deathwalker's Ward. Now go. You've found your strength. You know your path. I can help you no further.” He turns around, walks back to the center of the sand, and just sits back down in the same pose and position he was in when you entered.

LAURA: He's so fucking cool.

TRAVIS: Scanlan. Vax.

SAM and LIAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Do as I do.

LIAM: Yep.

TRAVIS: And I bow.

LIAM: (strained noise)

SAM: I bow as well.

TRAVIS: And I walk backwards, still facing him to the edge of the pit, and I hoist Vax up.

LIAM: (garbled yell)

TRAVIS: And I throw Scanlan up.

SAM: Oh fuck!

TRAVIS: Climb out.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Keyleth runs over to Vax and just hugs him super fast and gives him a peck on the mouth.

LIAM: Gently!

MARISHA: And says, that was incredible. That was incredible.

SAM: I look over at Zahra.

MARY: That was pretty good, darling. We'll talk later. It really was. It was very good.

MARISHA: Are you okay? Do you need healing?

LIAM: I'm okay.

LAURA: (whispers) Heal him.

MARISHA: I give him another hug and give him a Cure Wounds, level three.

MATT: All right.

MARY: Does it also make you sober?

MATT: No.

LIAM: No.

MARY: Potions have nothing to do with clearing alcohol away?

LAURA: No.

MATT: There's a difference between the healing and flushing one's system.

LIAM: Wait, wait, (vomiting noises) I'm ready.

LAURA: We should leave.

TRAVIS: I don't know about you, but I think we got all the answers we needed.

MATT: Make a dexterity save, Keyleth.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You've had this coming. You so had this coming.

MARISHA: I heal you for 12 points. I heal you 12, and then that's actually not bad. Dexterity save?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: 20 total.

MATT: As you see his cheeks fill with bile and liquid of your previous venture at the bar, you instinctually, as the mighty speed and reaction of an air-based Ashari druid, dodge out of the way as he spatters the stonework on the outside of this–

MARISHA: I hold his hair back a little bit. His long black hair.

MATT: Two of the monks immediately rush forward with towels out of seemingly nowhere and start quickly cleaning it up while staring at you very, very angrily.

LAURA: Sorry, we'll leave.

LIAM: Come on, it was their loincloths, come on.

TRAVIS: Apologies, apologies. We should leave now.

MARISHA: I just look at them and I'm like, he got hit in the gut a few times.

LAURA: He did, actually.

MARISHA: We're like a mile high, the oxygen's thin here, it's tough.

LAURA: We should go.

MARISHA: All right, we should go.

LIAM: And as Keyleth helps me away, I say to Kord, it was an honor, thank you.

LAURA: Kord? Groon?

LIAM: Whatever his name is.

(laughter)

LAURA: Or to the god that is–

MATT: Hey, this is a place where I think either would work. All right. As you guys make your way outside of the Trial Forge, we'll go ahead and leave today's venture for now–

(yelling)

MATT: – we'll return next week, return next week to pick up this next venture and see where you guys go from there. So, well done, guys. And thank you Will and Mary for joining us.

(cheering)

MARY: Thank you for having us!

MATT: For a couple episodes, yeah.

LIAM: What a fun episode.

MATT: Yeah guys, well done everyone.

WILL: Thank you.

MARISHA: I saw someone on twitter say that this was like our Cheers episode, and I agree.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I agree with whoever said that.

MARY: Keyleth!

WILL: Vasselheim: where everybody knows your name.

MARY: Actually, it would be Grog. Grog walks in the room, everybody goes Grog!

LAURA: Hey, come see us in Portland.

MATT: Yeah, come see us in Portland, we'll be there tomorrow, getting there tomorrow but we'll be there for Saturday and Sunday, come see us, come, y'know, bring your stories, we'd love to meet you.

LAURA: Come say hi. It looks like the posters are gone, but there's still some signed ones left if you want.

MATT: This means we'll just have to put more up.

TRAVIS: Come by any time, we have a one-hour panel, we have a one-hour group signing, and we're at tables the rest of the time, so just come find us anytime during the day.

MARISHA: And if you can't make it to Portland, our panel will be on on Saturday on Wizard World's twitch.

MATT: Yes, it should be. All right, guys, we'll see you next week. Have a wonderful, wonderful weekend, and is it Thursday yet? 

Part I

MATT: Bring it in. So to catch everyone up what's going on, Vox Machina, our intrepid band of adventurers, after dealing with the horrible attacks by the dragon circle known as the Chroma Conclave, destroying cities all across Tal'Dorei, the party escaped, sent the refugees they could, as well as allies, back to Whitestone, seemingly not on the radar of this attacking front of dragons at the moment, and then made their way toward Vasselheim to find allies, Pike staying behind to help with the refugees at the moment. Upon going to Vasselheim, you managed to encounter a number of old friends from the Slayer's Take and enlist them for the time being to help you with the refugees and your current wanderings here in the city proper. At the same time, you encountered Lady Kima, who also has agreed to help with the events in Whitestone and this entire dragon attack towards the east, and you, after wandering the city for a bit, retrieving these allies, followed Grog into the Trial Forge, where you had a conversation with Earthbreaker Groon. And by conversation I mean a full-on drag-out sandpit battle to prove your worth to him, in which case you were given information about these things called the Vestiges of the Divergence, artifacts of great legendary power that existed from previous wars that had wiped out most of society multiple times. These Vestiges have been scattered around the world, many of them lost to the history books or passed down as symbols of power through various bloodlines or government positions, or stolen and haven't been seen for hundreds of years. You've found the location of two of them, one of which was the Titanstone Knuckles, and the other happened to be some sort of a leather, a Deathwalker's Leather that belonged to a champion of the Raven Queen. This exists in apparently the champion's tomb, which used to exist to the west of Vasselheim until it eventually sunk into the ground as the topography shifted over time and resides beneath a lake known as the Marrowglade Loch. So. That is where we left off, as you guys recovered from the encounter in the Trial Forge, and deciding on your plan going forward. Stepping from the tavern, having a few drinks, and discussing the merits of your current path, what would you like to do, friends?

TRAVIS: That fucking hurt!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Old dude hit hard.

MARY: Well done, though.

TRAVIS: I mean, we found two of the vestibules of–

SAM: What did you find again? Brass knuckles of some sort?

TRAVIS: No, no, no. He mentioned, he mentioned Titanstone Knuckles.

LAURA: Do you know about those?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. It's a bit of a sensitive subject. (clears throat) I think my Uncle Kevdak has 'em.

ALL: What?

TRAVIS: Yeah. The leader of our wandering herd? He has two prize weapons that he pretty much used to use to beat me, like, near death.

MARY: Oh.

SAM: And now we have them?

ALL: No.

TRAVIS: No, we, he's still got them.

MARY: So where, do you have any idea where they might be wandering?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's this thing, I lost the GPS tracker on them, so, no.

LAURA: You should use Waze.

(laughter)

MARY: Sometimes it gets there, well, 20 minutes here or there.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but he's real strong. And it's only one of two really powerful weapons he has, so hey, at least we know where one of them is.

MARY: How is your relationship with him now? Besides the fact that he used to beat the crap out of you when you were younger.

TRAVIS: Just peachy. Like.

MARY: Really?

TRAVIS: Really great, no, it's fucking terrible.

MARY: Oh. That's lovely.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: All right, well, we know where one is. Where are these leathers, then? From the Raven Queen, we need to figure out where the Marrowglade Loch is?

MARY: The Marrowglade Loch.

MARISHA: Do we know where that is?

LAURA: It's a lake.

MARY: I did get a map from the Slayer's Take, is there anything on this map that would indicate where the Loch is?

MATT: Yeah, the Marrowglade Loch resides about a seven- to eight-hour journey swift of foot to the west-southwest area of Vasselheim. And it is marked on the map, it's not marked as a major place, it's just this sunken, somewhat muddy, swampish land. You've passed–

MARY: This wasn't the place that we passed on the way to go get Rimefang, was it? There was–

MATT: No, no no no. That was more north. But you passed this in your travels and some of your hunts with the Slayers' Take before, but it's never been a place of consequence, it is just a lake that exists on a map until this significance was given to it.

MARY: So we, so Kash and I have passed it before.

MATT: Yeah, I'd say probably some time in the past.

LAURA: So we know it's relatively close, we should probably head there.

WILL: If you think your uncle's closer than eight hours away–

MARISHA: No, he's on another continent.

WILL: Then he's probably not closer than eight hours away.

MARY: Or he's in the tavern down the street. You never know.

LAURA: I feel like we need to, we told–

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: We keep changing places and nobody's going to know where we are. Pike is in Whitestone. How do we let her know we're moving? Or are we coming back here?

SAM: Wait, where are we going? Marrowway Cove? What?

MARY and LAURA: To the Loch.

TALIESIN: Well, we're only going for a day.

LIAM: That dragon's days are numbered.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel like if Pike really needed to get a hold of us, she could.

TALIESIN: We could also leave word for where we're going.

LAURA: Let's leave word at the Slayer's Take that we're heading out. So if, you know, Allura or Pike shows up wanting to find us–

TALIESIN: Or, god forbid, if something happens to us, they know where to retrieve our bodies.

WILL: The Take's not coming out to retrieve our bodies.

MARY: No, they won't.

WILL: The Take's not coming out. There's no money in your bodies.

MATT: And Kima at this point looks about and says, “Well, if we have plans to head east and probably not spend much time here among Vasselheim for a while, I have some business I've got to clear up here as well.”

MARY: Can I introduce myself, Lady Kima? I don't think we've ever met before. Have we?

MATT: “This is true, actually. No.” And she steps up to you and you, you know, at first view you've had you see she's square-shouldered and pretty rough in the physicality of what you'd imagine from most halflings you see. She walks with her shoulders forward and she has this intensity to her step, even when it's just a friendly exchange. She bears armor that is gold with various silver and blue details on it that are parts of the presentation of Bahamut and the temple that is a representation of his worship. She carries a large, metallic hammer that she keeps left over one shoulder. She has just-past-her-shoulders wavy ashy, dirty-blondish hair and a big scar that rides across her face as well as a number of other scars that aren't quite as visible. She grins as she steps up and moves her hammer to the other side of her shoulders with a clink and puts her hand out.

MARY: I put mine out as well and say: your appearance fascinates me on so many levels, I look forward to getting to know you.

MATT: She pulls her hand away and she goes, “Interesting coming from you, definitely.”

MARY: Yeah.

MATT: “All right.”

WILL: I don't think we met either, how you doing?

MATT: “Anyway.”

MARY: That's Kash. A man of few words.

MATT: “I've met few as unremarkable as you in my travels.”

WILL: I'm sorry, I wasn't listening, what?

MATT: “Touché. Well, I'll get about my business here, you said you're traveling for half a day to a day, say meet back at the Slayer's Take in about 24, 36 hours, then head on to the east?”

LIAM: Are we assuming it's going to be as easy as all that?

LAURA: So, wait, a couple days and then we're heading out? I thought we were heading out now.

MATT: “Or meet up with you, I'm going by what you're telling me. We can meet up whenever you'd like.”

LAURA: Are you coming with us?

MATT: “I'm coming with you, yeah, but I have some business to take care of here in the city before we go ahead and head off.”

LAURA: Well. Can we wait a day?

LIAM: To have Kima with us, I think so, yes.

MATT: “Well, you guys are going– where?”

MARY: We were going to head to the Loch.

LAURA: To the Loch.

WILL: What do you have to do in Vasselheim first?

TRAVIS: Oh, good question.

MATT: She crosses her hands for a second and says, “Why are you so interested in my business, human?”

WILL: Well, because if you're coming with us, then we have to wait, so what you're deciding to do very much affects what we're doing. So let me ask it a different way: what business do you have in Vasselheim?

SAM: He just raised his voice a little, that was the difference.

TALIESIN: I didn't catch that.

MATT: “I was trying to arrange passage to the east. Got a little bit of pull here in the city, some favors that're owed to me, I figured maybe I could do a favor, but that's, I don't know. If you're going to have an attitude about it.”

WILL: Well then we're in trouble, I have an attitude about everything.

MARY: Pay him no mind, it's not personal. Kash.

WILL: What? I'm just, it's a logical question, see, she's got something to do in Vasselheim, we have to wait, what does she have to do? I don't feel like I'm talking out of turn.

MARY: Making friends as always.

MARISHA: To be fair, Kima and I had a rough start, too. She's, I mean, I love you, Kima, but I mean sometimes, you can get a little bit of, there's–

MATT: “Are we meeting back in a couple days or are we waiting, what's the business here, I–”

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: How long do you need to get what you have done? You need a day?

MATT: “I'm assuming a day, I have to try and find a couple of folks and pull some strings.”

SAM: Do you need me to stay with you? To help you?

MATT: “No I'm fine. I've seen plenty of your strengths in the past.”

SAM: And nipples.

LAURA: Okay.

WILL: We're missing something, I don't understand.

LAURA: I feel like we're missing something, wait, you're trying to get us passage to the back–

MARY: You're trying to get us passage to the Knuckles place, is that, get them passage?

LAURA: Or are you trying to get us to the lake? I'm so confused. This is out of character, I literally don't have an idea what's going on.

TRAVIS: I want to insight check Kima.

(laughter)

LIAM: Little rusty after three weeks, folks.

MATT: “Part of you coming and asking for the aid of the palace was to help with this whole scourge of dragons you're talking about to the east. The ones that you say have destroyed most of Westruun and most of my friends still exist in that area. So I figure that's the passage we need to get over there.”

MARISHA: When you mean east, you mean like, far east.

MATT: “Eeeeast.”

MARISHA: Like really, okay. Well, no, there's time.

LAURA: Here's the thing. Also, our lady Keyleth, the beautiful princess that lives among us, she has a way she can travel us very very quickly through trees, so we don't actually need passage.

MATT: “Through trees.”

MARISHA: It's a new skill I've picked up since we hung out last.

MATT: “That's weird.”

TRAVIS: No, it's really quite painless. It's pretty cool.

MARISHA: It's, yeah, and it has a nice cedar scent when you go through.

LAURA: So unless we're getting supplies and we need to travel with a lot of things, then, you know, we don't actually need passage.

MARISHA: Also, I need to go by the Fire Ashari before we really head east-east, and they're west. So.

WILL: Yeah, there's like 37 things we have to do before, so.

LIAM: We need to carve out a plan, Kash is right, we should pick something short-term and do something because–

TALIESIN: Let's head to the Loch.

MARISHA: The Loch is on the way to the Fire Ashari anyway.

LAURA: Do you think that this is going to lead to some serious fighting? Because it sounds like these Vestiges are well-guarded.

TRAVIS: Well, you don't have any reason to think that. Could be hanging from a tree branch.

LAURA: I'm sure. You know what, Grog, that's an excellent point.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Just hiding in plain sight.

LAURA: Hanging on a tree branch under the lake.

TRAVIS: That's where I'd hide it.

MARISHA: Z, Kash, you all have been by the Loch before, would you know what–

WILL: It was pretty unremarkable last time we were there if it's the one I'm thinking of.

MARY: Actually, I may have remembered something about the Loch? What do I, would I have remembered anything at all?

MATT: Make a history check.

MARY: What do I do for that?

LAURA: Roll a 20 and add it to your history. So 11.

MARY: 11. Is that an eight?

MATT: It's a pretty unremarkable Loch.

MARY: It's a pretty unremarkable Loch.

MATT: As far as lakes go, it's maybe a few hundred feet across. It's more from a part of the land mass actually having a large sinkhole and where certain things may have existed, and there are bits of ruin throughout the surroundings of some sort of a structure that existed there, but most of it seems to have been swallowed up by the ground and the lake has formed in its place, though this was quite some time ago. And it swells or drains based on how much snowfall there has been in recent seasons, and it's been a pretty heavy winter for you guys, so you imagine from the times you've seen it that it's been pretty high, if not frozen over at times.

MARY: So it's rather unremarkable, but I think it's something that we can handle, definitely, within a 24-hour period.

LAURA: Well, we just loaded up on a bunch of potions. Some dickhead.

MARISHA: I am with Vex, though, I have a feeling that the chance that this item has been completely forgotten is not likely.

LIAM: Well, we need allies and we need power because we're not in shape to take care of a coven of dragons at the moment. Seems like slightly lower-hanging fruit than the other option?

MARISHA and LAURA: Let's try it.

SAM: What time of day is it right now?

MATT: At this time, it's probably, say, midafternoon.

LAURA: Well, we're not going to get there before dark, so maybe we should sleep here tonight and start out in the morning.

TRAVIS: Well, I have a question, and not like I can really help with this, but should we go see if we can read about some article of shadow-death, whatever the fuck it's called? Like, is it in a library?

LAURA: Maybe the Slayer's Take knows more about the lake, about these Vest– no, these are pretty secret, I think the Vestiges are a pretty well-kept secret, people aren't going to just know where they are.

TRAVIS: No? Like what if they're super-old but they go by a different name or something?

LAURA: I wonder if somebody knows about a cavern under the lake.

TALIESIN: That's what I would assume, is there must be some sort of underground structure, some part of the ruins.

LAURA: Or maybe we need to breathe under-fricking-water.

TRAVIS: Oh, I've got two vials of that shit.

MARISHA: Why don't we take the rest of the night to try and do some research. Is there any way we can find maybe maps or something about ancient history books?

MARY: And I do have a map from the Slayer's Take that I could–

MARISHA: Oh, no, but I mean, we need to find like books about civilizations that might've been here in the past that might get us some sort of– Like a library. Is there a library?

TRAVIS: Pictures or no pictures?

MARISHA: There might be some pictures.

TRAVIS: All right. I'm in.

LAURA: Is there a library nearby?

MATT: (laughs) Oh, it's been two weeks and I missed you guys.

WILL: Do we have a library at the Take?

MATT: Hm? There are a collection of books at the Take, but most of them are in reference to cataloging various creatures, details about their lifestyles, their inherent weaknesses, what elements of their bodies can be harvested and what clients are usually looking for. It's more specific to the business of the Slayer's Take than anything that would involve local history. I mean, I'll say if two of you would like to make an investigation check between the two, your choice, whoever wants to do that, we'll base, see what information you can find.

SAM: I feel good about my investigation, I have a keen eye.

LAURA: I've got a pretty decent investigation. You and me, brother.

SAM: Let's do this.

LAURA: All right. 23.

SAM: Not as good, but pretty good. 17.

MATT: 17. In taking the better part of the rest of the day and asking around, you manage to find one location that carries books, and what you would consider as sort of like a library, though nothing of the ancient historical fashion. There are many books about the history of the temples here in the town, elements of the battles of old, but they're all very vague in their writing as almost like a story as opposed to a historical fact-gathering-type presentation. You manage to find a place that does deal in dusty books, partially repaired and restored books, a little bit pricier, but there is one tome that seems to talk specifically about the history of the Raven Queen's rise here in the city, and if you would like to possibly take this book, for a price, that is up to you.

LAURA: Is somebody watching me at the moment?

SAM: Have I rejoined her?

MATT: No, you guys are doing this separately.

LAURA: Are we just perusing a bookstore, or–?

MATT: Essentially right now you are, it's a small place, but there are two employees, and it's not very busy at all, you're the only person in the room, so they're both just quietly watching from a distance.

LAURA: I sit down on the ground and start reading through the book.

SAM: Barnes and Noble-style?

LAURA: And see if I can find information.

MATT: Well, about 30 seconds into that, one of the employees comes up and goes, “Excuse me, miss–”

LAURA: Oh, hi!

MATT: “If you are going to–”

LAURA: I keep reading.

MATT: “I would ask if you would wish to read this to purchase it, as that is our business, we are not an open place to just utilize the information.”

LAURA: Oh, I thought this was a library!

MATT: “It's a book sale collection, please, if you're going to read it, please purchase the book. Or leave?”

LAURA: Of course, well, can I just check and make sure that it's actually got any information that I need? Because if it doesn't then I don't want to buy it. You understand.

MATT: “You may peruse for but a moment. If you do not find an essence of what you're seeking at that time, I would have to ask you to leave.”

LAURA: All right, of course, yes. Are you just going to stand there and watch me peruse then?

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: Well, I just start looking for what I need.

MATT: In the brief time that you have going through, you manage to glean, there is a chapter that speaks of the Divergence, it speaks of the last large struggle that happened in the center of civilization. This was the second battle before the gods themselves fully rescinded from the land itself. And the Raven Queen did have a number of chosen champions as a part of this endeavor, and that's as far as you get before he goes, “All right, so, you've had a bit of time.”

LAURA: I just don't know, I can't really tell if it actually has anything interesting.

MATT: There is a tag on the book that says 30 gold.

LAURA: What's the back? That's 30 gold! 30 gold. It's so dusty, though, I mean is that even worth it if it's this dusty? 30 gold? Does it have spells in it? No.

MATT: He reaches out and grabs the book and says, “If you are not a serious collector, I'm sorry, then it seems that we–”

LAURA: Oh. Oh.

MATT: And he starts pulling it, tugging it up.

LAURA: No! I hold onto it. Well, I know people that, you know, care about dirty old books, so I guess, I mean, I might be willing to purchase it for them, but they usually like things in mint condition when they buy their antiques. This has a damaged spine, I see it, and yellowing of the pages. And it seems like somebody's bookmarked this one.

SAM: It wasn't kept in its neoprene sleeve.

MATT: He slams the book shut as you're perusing through the pages. “30 gold, or I will ask you to leave.”

LAURA: Oh. This is the worst haggling ever.

SAM: Get out your buyer's guide.

LAURA: What's your name?

(groaning)

SAM: Just kill him!

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: Oh, good grief.

LAURA: 18?

TALIESIN: We have robbed cadavers.

MATT: “As far as you're concerned right now, my name is No Sale.” And pulls the book back.

LAURA: I feel hurt, and I pull out 30 gold and I say, I suppose– (weakly) I'll buy it.

MATT: Takes the gold, hands you the tome.

LAURA: Damn it! It hurts! It hurts me in my soul.

MARISHA: That's the first time I've ever seen Vex pay full price for anything.

MARY: Is that the first time you've ever paid full price for anything?

LAURA: It is, actually. The first time.

MARY: Momentous occasion. Hunter's Mark that son of a bitch.

LAURA: I kind of respect you. I'm a little impressed.

MATT: “Benjamin Cole, should you find your way around here again and wish to pay full price for another one of our fine books.”

LAURA: Benjamin Cole. You're a dear.

MATT: “Come again,” he says begrudgingly as you exit the facility. So, looking through the book, it does talk about– specifically, there are a few champions. Many that were lost entirely to the battle, unrecovered. One of the highest of the Order of the Raven Queen, that fought in her name, was named Purvan–

LAURA: (cackles) Yeah, he was.

MARISHA: “Perv on?”

MATT: Purvan. P-U-R-V-A-N.

SAM: Last name Pedobear.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We're running out of good names, aren't we? We've finally gotten to the end of your list of good names.

TRAVIS: (giggling) Purvan Pedobear?

MATT: Oh, you guys are cruising to a TPK today.

(laughter)

LAURA: Not on the anniversary, Matt! Not on the anniversary.

MATT: No, this is great.

TRAVIS: (giggling) Purvan Pedobear.

MARY: Kash and Z were left staring at the bodies.

MATT: (with great emphasis) Purvan–

LIAM: Yes, yes, get your perv on! Emphatically.

MATT: All right. That's more hit points onto these guys here, for later. All right.

MARY: Perv on, MacDuff. Perv on.

MATT: Purvan Suul is the full name, though the name was given to the Raven Queen at the time of signing itself to the order, in which they become nameless. The champions are just mentioned or spoken of in public as The Champion, so the name is part of the gift they give to the Raven Queen when they swear themselves to her. Fell in the final conflict and was interred within a tomb to the west of Vasselheim. It is said that it is a multi-leveled tomb, and as the Raven Queen's fellowship began to fall out of favor after the Divergence had happened– essentially, because her realm is death, during times of great conflict and strife, there is great power and a lot of energy given towards the Raven Queen. When things fall into peace time, or at least, for an extended period of time, there isn't a lot of conflict or burgeoning death and destruction within the vicinity, her worship tends to dwindle. As that dwindled, there wasn't enough people within the remaining bloodlines to maintain the tomb. It fell into disuse and since then has not been tended to.

TRAVIS: Yeah, nobody's there.

LAURA: There's definitely going to be ghosts there. Kashaw?

WILL: Yeah?

LAURA: Do your holy shit when we go there, all right?

WILL: I will absolutely do my holy shit. You don't want to see the god, but we'll do the rest of the holy shit. We'll be fine.

LAURA: Oh, really? Is it not, like, Sarenrae? Sarenrae? Is that your god?

WILL: No.

TRAVIS: No, he's married, remember?

LAURA: You're married to a god?! Wait, you're married and you–

MARISHA: Wait. We didn't have that conversation with her.

WILL: Yeah, we didn't. For the record, she married me, and there's a difference.

SAM: You're married?

WILL: Technically.

MARISHA: I don't know if that holds up in court, Vesh.

WILL: She's not really going to care about court so much as ripping the bones from your back. You really don't want to meet her. It's a bad thing. But yes! We can do a whole lot of stuff to get through the ghosts.

LAURA: Good times.

WILL: We'll just stay away from her. They weren't good times.

LAURA: I want to hear more about this.

WILL: You really don't. You won't sleep.

TRAVIS: So we also need maps, right? We need your maps.

MARY: Yes, I've got maps.

TRAVIS: Wait, don't you have something for me, also?

MARY: Yes, I do. Oh, yes! I do, actually. I forgot. I did keep it with me. As drunk as I was, I do remember telling you about the Moon Hammer. So I did. I brought it. And I give this to you, my friend. I'm very excited.

TRAVIS: How big is it? I know I'm looking at it, but what does it look like?

MATT: You go ahead and explain.

MARY: No, go right ahead.

MATT: It is a fine, smooth, dark metal warhammer that as the handle itself leads towards the heavy head portion of the hammer, the metal turns instead to almost a glistening ivory that has symbols pushed into it. A language you don't understand, but there's a giant moon crescent carved into each side of the hammer's head.

TRAVIS: Whoa.

MARY: It took me weeks to forge it.

TRAVIS: This is beautiful. Can I hit something with it?

MARY: Sure.

TRAVIS: What can I hit with it?

MARY: Scanlan, where are you?

TRAVIS: Scanlan, come here.

SAM: What's up? What do you need?

TRAVIS: Just stand right there.

SAM: Sure. Whatever you need.

TRAVIS: I reach back halfway and give a quarter-measure (whoomp). Right into Scanlan.

MATT: Make an attack roll. We'll say with disadvantage because you were taking a half-measure.

TRAVIS: About the same as the Firebrand-ish?

MATT: It's technically non-magical.

TRAVIS: Okay. 14.

MATT: 14. You manage to just barely, as you see this thing coming towards you, and duck beneath it.

SAM: I thought you were going to tell me a dirty joke, or something! When you say “come here,” usually that's what that means!

TRAVIS: No, I wanted to try out the hammer.

SAM: Oh. Well then, no! Try it on Vax.

LIAM: I'm already 20 paces away.

TRAVIS: Vax?

LIAM: I go stealth.

MATT: Roll stealth. Roll a perception check.

TRAVIS: Vax! Shit!

LIAM: 27.

TRAVIS: Two.

(laughter)

MATT: Try as you might to look around, Vax is nowhere to be seen.

LIAM: I literally just pivoted around my sister and pressed against her.

TRAVIS: Doing exactly what she does?

SAM: I'm going to use Minor Illusion to make a really shitty Vax. A really cruddy-looking Vax.

LAURA: Not in Vasselheim!

SAM: Oh, shit. Too late.

MATT: Too late. So as you're looking around, you see this strange quiver of shadow that seems to formulate in the air, and this awkward, still, unmoving, awkward mannequin-type visual recreation of Vax muddles itself there. I need you to roll an insight check.

MARY: (laughs) Please be low.

TRAVIS: It is. Four.

(laughter)

MATT: Finally! Vax cannot evade your vision this time, Grog.

TRAVIS: You stand right there. I swing down in an arc to try and hit Vax.

MATT: Okay. With this weird, awkward half-grin frozen in place. The hammer streaks down through this form and passes completely through it, slamming into the mud beneath, splattering mud up and around you, across your chest, and for a brief instant, Vax completely seems to have evaded the attack.

TRAVIS: (yelps) I killed him! He's all over me! His bits are all over me!

LAURA: Grog, how could you?! My brother!

TRAVIS: What did you give me?!

MARY: It's a hell of a hammer, isn't it?

MATT: With that, the illusion is dissipated and Vax is no longer there before you.

TRAVIS: (screams) (weakly) I've killed him. I've killed poor Vax.

MARY: Come here, darling.

TRAVIS: What is this evil monstrosity?

MARY: No. Come here. I lead him around the side of Vex.

LIAM: Hey, big guy.

TRAVIS: You're alive! Come here! And give him a big ol' squeeze. And I squeeze a little tighter to make sure he doesn't turn into mud. You turned into mud last time.

MATT: The harder he squeezes you, you fear you may turn into mud.

TRAVIS: Did it hurt? Did the Moon Hammer hurt you?

LIAM: No. No, I was able to dodge both ways apart, and then came back together. It's my cloak does that.

TRAVIS: Shit, this is like– we're going to save this for the really nasty fellas. All right, I'm going to put this in the bag.

MARY: All right.

TRAVIS: You know, if a kid or Scanlan or Pike sees it? She'll be so furious.

MARY: Yeah, she'll be terrified.

TRAVIS: I put it in the Bag of Holding.

MATT: All right. At this point, Kima has pulled a small flask out and takes a swig and goes, (sighs) “Ah, I've missed you.”

WILL: Can you give me a swig of that? Come on.

LAURA: Best friends forever. (gasps)

TRAVIS: (grunts, splutters) Respect.

WILL: Fair enough.

MATT: “So. Are we resting, or are we off? I'm growing impatient.”

TRAVIS and LAURA: We're off.

LAURA: We're going to go. We're going to camp overnight, yeah?

WILL: Sounds perfectly safe.

LAURA: You know what?

TALIESIN: It doesn't matter if it's going to be daylight if we're underground.

LAURA: That's true. All right. I just think, outside of Vasselheim, you know, things come out at night, but whatever.

WILL: We've killed a lot of them.

MARY: Yeah, we have.

LAURA: If you guys think this is the most brilliant decision, I'm on board.

TALIESIN: I'm actually hoping that it's the worst decision we make, because then everything's uphill.

LAURA: So much wisdom.

TALIESIN: Thank you. I'm just trying to bring–

TRAVIS: Let's do it. We're out.

MARY: Having passed the loch before, would we have an idea of what we might anticipate on the way?

MATT: There are all sorts of things that you could anticipate along the way. There are a number of denizens of this forest that are all sorts of levels of danger. There are roving orcish bands from the far, far northwest, which you encountered on your way to Rimefang. There are a number of other creatures that wander these areas: some of them bestial, some with some element of culture. There are bandits that come from the far west, possibly from across that sea that occasionally try and kill and pillage as best they can. Most everyone avoids the city of Vasselheim, because that place is pretty hardcore by comparison. So yeah, all kinds of things you could find.

MARY: Then I think we should go. We can handle it. Yeah, I'm ready.

LAURA: Keyleth, can't you turn us all to mist, and then we poof there?

MARISHA: I was going to say, do you want to Mist Walk this? It would be appropriate this time.

LAURA: Then we could be there before the evening.

TRAVIS: Can we control the direction that we move?

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: Can you Mist Walk us all, including Trinket?

LIAM: Context is everything.

TALIESIN: Better double-check that.

MARISHA: Let me see how many people I can do.

TRAVIS: How far away is it? Ish?

MATT: At a fast pace on foot, it would take you seven to eight hours.

MARY: I know a place where we can get horses, as well.

LAURA: Horses would die out there.

MARY: That's all right. They've died before. Might need food, as well.

MATT: You guys have a great history of–

SAM: Killing horses?

LIAM: I say we let Keyleth handle it. We swish out and camp for the night.

SAM: Let's go. Just do it.

MATT: Up to ten willing creatures for Wind Walk.

LAURA: Yay! Let's do it.

MATT: All right.

MARY and LAURA: (ghost noises)

MARY: We're like a giant fart.

MATT: For some of you, it's a familiar, if still uncomfortable, physical feeling as your body–

MARISHA: Just accept it.

WILL: What's happening?

MARISHA: Just accept it.

MATT: You become this amorphous, cloudy, vaporous form. You can fly at a very swift speed, even against a relatively strong wind.

LAURA: We probably should have talked out our plan before we did this.

MATT: Trinket in his mist form is seemingly very uncomfortable with this circumstance.

MARY: I use Beast Speech. Are you all right? Are you all right, Trinket? Everything okay? I can speak to him.

MATT: “What's happening?”

MARY: It's all right, darling. We're going to a loch. It's going to be great fishing for you.

MATT: “I will follow.”

LAURA: We can talk in mist form?

MATT: Sure.

(laughter)

MATT: At this point, I don't give a shit.

WILL: Your fun is wrong. Your fun is wrong!

MARY: Your fun is wrong.

TRAVIS: The t-shirt exists.

MARY: It does. Thanks.

MATT: I can imagine as part of the enchantment, as you guys can pass wind through your mist vocal cords.

MARY: Just about everything. He's very good at passing wind.

MATT: Oh, he's delightful.

TRAVIS: You really should just chain up with me and I'll get us there super quick.

MATT: All right, so you guys begin to head westward, following your previous experience at the direction that it takes you. You push that way. Kima is also still getting used to this whole mist form endeavor. It takes a little bit for you guys to adjust to this locomotion, but it is very swift in comparison to moving on foot. Drifting over the top of the forest canopies, you guys, riding the top in this full-on, Falcor fly-through moment as you're cruising through the snow-capped forest.

TRAVIS: Like E.T.

LAURA: That's awesome.

MATT: You can see a cluster of large eagles in the distance. You guys manage to swoop around. Eventually, as the sun begins to make its way towards the horizon– you managed to cut a good four or five hours off your journey on this, making your way towards the Marrowglade Loch. There are certain areas where the canopy itself breaks apart, and you can see ravines, you can see where areas of the topography have cracked or shifted in time, and there are drops that go deep under the earth, though you cannot quite see where they would continue to go, until you make your way to the Marrowglade, and there you can see, still full to the top, if a little icy at the surface, it seems relatively undisturbed. You make your way, all drifting down, back beneath the canopy of the Vesper Timberland, and at the edges of the lake.

MARY: Are there any islands in the loch? Are there any islands or any sort of rocks or outcroppings, or anything within the loch itself?

MATT: No, actually. It's a pretty solid surface, and as you guys have drifted down in your form, looking at it, you can see that there is a layer of ice. You're not quite sure how thick, but the surface is very crystalline.

TALIESIN: Any remnants of ruins around the loch?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: From above, could I see any sort of caverns or openings in the ground, or something that looked like caves? That's what I was keeping my eye out for as we went.

MATT: Make a perception check for you, as well.

TALIESIN: 25.

MATT: 25. You see there are bits of stone scattered about 30 feet out from the lake's edge. Going to inspect them, and looking about them, there are pieces of fallen walls and what appear to be elements of the tomb, possibly before it fell within, but you do not see any sort of opening or entrance. It's just a part of some structure, some foundation that was left behind.

WILL: Are there any runes or any markings of any kind?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: 22 is what I rolled.

MATT: 22? Nothing near the loch. The largest chasm or portion of land that you saw that was broken and receded into the earth itself was probably about a half-mile to a mile back. Nothing that is in the immediate vicinity of this lake.

LAURA: Okay. Is this technically– are we in the woods? Is this my favored terrain again?

MATT: Yes. You guys have come down into the forest. You're all still in mist form, so you're unable to directly interact with anything in the area.

WILL: 11.

MATT: 11? Doesn't seem to have any specific elements or markings.

MARY: Can I try, as well, because I can read any writing that we find? May I make a check, as well?

MATT: Make an investigation check. Sure.

MARY: Oh, that's terrible. Never mind!

MATT: So, you guys all rest around the outskirts of this lake.

LAURA: How do we stop being like this?

MARISHA: Just think about it. Think about being a person again.

TRAVIS: How high are we?

MATT: As high as you want to be. Right now, everyone has come down to the edge of the lake, so you're right off the ground.

LAURA: Should we turn like people again?

MARISHA: Yeah, let's turn like people again.

LAURA: Tell Trinket to turn like a bear.

WILL: Why is everyone talking like this?

LAURA: Oh, can we talk normal? Oh.

MARY: Trinket, hon. Just concentrate on turning back into a bear, and you'll turn back into a bear.

MATT: “Okay.”

LAURA: Tell him I love him.

MARY: Oh! And Vex loves you.

MATT: (laughs) If a bear could grin, it would. However, the process is very strange as you see this misty cloud (poof) into a bear. It's about a minute for the full transformation. The spell still maintains its eight-hour time period, and you can transform back and forth during that eight-hour period.

LAURA: Killer.

MATT: So we'll say it's been about three to four hours, so you're about half-duration. All of you eventually take a minute to revert back to your physical forms, and you're all now standing at the edge of the lake.

LIAM: So for the next eight hours, with a little bit of concentration, we can jump back and forth?

MATT: Next four hours.

LIAM: Next four hours. We can spend a minute to go (foomf) and (foomf)?

MATT: Yep. You just can't do anything while you're in that form, other than move.

LIAM: Yes, I remember.

WILL: Can you move underwater?

LAURA: (gasps) Can we mist underwater? Can farts travel underwater?

MARISHA: I guess if we get trapped underwater, we could just concentrate and turn into bubbles.

LAURA: That's kind of cool.

MARISHA: Right? That would work, theoretically.

WILL: Or we'll all drown.

LAURA: Or we'll drown.

MARY: It's a freshwater loch, right?

TRAVIS: I don't know. I walk up to the edge of the loch and I look in the water. What does the water look like?

LAURA and LIAM: It's ice.

MATT: So your head goes (boosh). A little crack. (cracking noise)

TRAVIS: It's ice!

MATT: As he says that, you see a trickle of crimson streaking down the front of his head.

LAURA: Thank you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Welcome!

TALIESIN: I'm going to put some pressure on the ice with my foot. Is it giving, or is it not giving?

MATT: At the place where he put his head, or any other place?

TALIESIN: No, I'm walking. I'm just testing the ice.

MATT: Okay. Testing it with your foot on the edge, it doesn't seem to be any give. Looking up close, you can see it's probably a good inch and a half of ice.

LAURA: Can I go hit the place where Grog hit his head and see if I can crack a hole in the ice?

MATT: Yeah. It takes you a few minutes, but you manage to break apart and make a head-sized hole.

LIAM: And how thick is it, based on what she just did?

MATT: It's about an inch.

LIAM: Oh, just an inch. Ooh.

LAURA: This is going to suck! And I put my head underwater to see if I can look around.

MATT: Make a perception check with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, shit!

MARY: It's good, though!

LAURA: Oh, with disadvantage. Doesn't it count as disadvantage by destroying the rest of my dice?

LIAM: Yeah!

LAURA: Perception. That is a 31? No, 41.

LIAM: No, 71.

MATT: You see through reality!

LAURA: Yeah, 31.

MATT: Giant floating baby right outside of the planet, in space.

LAURA: What?!

MATT: All right, so. Glancing through the murky water beneath the ice's surface, it is dark, and what little bit of light that would be hitting the surface is refracting through the ice, so it's very hard to get a form. You can see there's a very thick layer of bottom-of-the-lake undergrowth: various underwater plants that have caked the entire floor area of the lake. However, you can just see, at the edge of your vision before the rest of the light is swallowed by the water and the murkiness of the depths, you can see what looks to be the edge of some sort of stone structure, where two walls would be joined, but they break off and crumble and disappear into more of the undergrowth.

LAURA: (gasps, coughs) It's down there. Oh, it's so cold!

LIAM: I take her braid and I start wringing it out.

LAURA: My poor little feathers are like, poo.

MARY: Can I use my staff to cast Light and shove it down in to see if we can get any light out of it, beneath the ice?

MATT: Sure. You cast Light at the end of your staff. It glows and illuminates and as you shove it down, the light disperses beneath the ice.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take my mask and put it on, and use the glass to create a clear view into the water.

MARY: Should give you some light, Percy.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: Okay, so having to close one eye separately, as the light source is literally right in your face, you do look past, using the air trapped in the mask. A little bit of water is peeking in because it's not perfect. You do manage to see beyond that yes, there is indeed an element. It looks almost like a slightly tilted peak of some sort of structure that comes to a point, and the top of the point is broken off and crumbled, and there are a couple of sections of stone that seem to offshoot at four different points towards the very bottom of the lake itself.

LAURA: How deep does it look?

MATT: I'd say it's about 50 to 60 feet deep.

TALIESIN: 50 to 60 feet deep.

LAURA: Oh. Good, good.

TALIESIN: Give or take.

LIAM: Do you want to try to cloud-creep our way in there?

MARISHA: How far away is it under the ice?

TALIESIN: About 30 to 50 feet.

MARISHA: Let's stand over top of where it is.

LAURA: Is there any way– because I have this horrible feeling that we're going to get underwater, and then we won't be able to get out because it's covered in ice. Can we melt the ice? Can you do something?

MARISHA: I was about to do that, yeah, but I want to go over– Right above it.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's a perfect idea.

MARISHA: Yeah, so.

LAURA: Walk carefully.

TRAVIS: Are we all going in?

LAURA: I feel like we should.

SAM: This is the same day as the monk fight?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: We didn't rest?! We're idiots.

TRAVIS: But we were going to camp when we got here, right?

MATT: It's about dusk now, if you guys are landing.

LAURA: Let's camp– oh, god.

MARY: So we're going to take a rest. What if I–

TALIESIN: We can at least start setting up in the meantime.

MARY: So if we rest, will it be a long rest? Overnight?

LIAM: Yeah, we're going to camp for the night. I don't think we should–

SAM: But our mist form will dissipate, so if we want to mist it, we should mist it now and check it out.

LAURA: I'm going to try to mist down and just see if I can.

LIAM: I'm going with her.

MARISHA: I have Water Breathing. We could do that, too.

MARY: Or we could Polymorph and do something.

LIAM: Well, let's just use the magic you already expended first.

MATT: You pull out your brand new hammer.

TRAVIS: Yeah, the Moon Hammer!

MATT: (doosh, doosh) Ice shards flying off, splashing in the water. You're covered in this ice-cold water now.

LAURA: I'm concentrating on making myself a fart.

MATT: Vex turns into a large, gaseous form.

LAURA: He's doing it, too.

MATT: Okay, the two twins, (foomf) together.

LIAM: Twin farts.

MARY: I'd also like to use Sculptor of Flesh and Polymorph myself into a very large alligator.

MATT: All right.

MARY: And go down and check it out.

MATT: All right. You guys, all three of you, descend into the open portion of the lake that Grog has broken through.

LAURA: Can we go in as gas?

LIAM: Can we breathe?

MATT: You guys do. It's a slog, and you can move slowly, but the speed that's normally granted to you by this– you actually move slower in this form underwater than you would normally, swimming, and as you submerge yourselves, you realize, even in this form, air is required, and you start (straining noises).

LAURA: I go back up.

MATT: The forms– it's almost like mist appearing on the edge of the lake that (fwoosh) forms up into your two different forms.

MARISHA: So pretty.

MATT: You, however, still delve down as your alligator, and you swim your way down across the bottom of the lake.

LIAM: Percy, we did some science! That didn't work.

TALIESIN: Congratulations. That's good to know.

MARISHA: All right, if we rest, I can learn Water Breathing.

LAURA: Oh, killer.

SAM: Our good old Zahra is already down there looking.

LAURA: Let's try to set up camp in the trees, so we're not on the ground.

TRAVIS: Yeah, like in Whitestone.

WILL: As they're setting up camp, Kash doesn't leave the side of the lake. He's just watching for where Z went in. He's just staring the whole time.

MATT: All right, so as you guys are setting up camp in a similar way that you did in Whitestone, up within the actual tree canopy itself, I need you to make an investigation check.

LAURA: Any sign of her, Kash?

WILL: Nothing yet.

MARY: Oh, natural 20.

(cheering)

LAURA: Oh! Natural 20.

MATT: As you check around the ruins, looking about, you can see there appears to be two different entrances that are both completely caved in. What you do see, though, is there's an area of the bottom of the lake, about ten feet away from one of the edges of the temple itself, that there is no undergrowth. There's the muddy floor, but it appears as if there is no actual plant life that has grown in this ten-foot-circle area.

MARY: Can I investigate that area?

MATT: It's mud.

MARY: It's just mud. All right. Can I get down with my fabulous snout and dig down into the mud a little bit?

MATT: Okay. You take your snout and dig through the mud and bring up some clouds of dirt and whatever scum has congealed at the bottom of this pond. It murks up the water around you. Your vision is obscured. Doesn't seem to be revealing anything, per se.

MARY: But I do see an entrance?

MATT: You see what would be an entrance to the structure, but the stonework itself has collapsed in on itself.

MARY: Can I see any writing? Any runes, any sign of carvings on the rocks at all?

MATT: Actually, no. It's pretty plain. The exterior is pretty damn plain in presentation. What minor bits of design or grooves that were put into the stone to give it a presentational bump have eroded over time, but beyond that, it seems surprisingly plain.

MARY: What the hell would cause no plant life? And I can do no more investigating than just that?

MATT: What else would you want to try and do?

MARY: (laughing) I don't know.

MATT: You are welcome to do whatever you want to do while you're here.

LAURA: Maybe Keyleth can find out something.

MARY: All right, then I'll go back up to the surface and report back what I saw.

MATT: All right.

WILL: Right when she gets out, he throws his cloak over her.

MARY: And I transform back into myself and whack him on the butt as a thanks.

LAURA: With your tail?

MARY: With my tail.

TALIESIN: That's what tails are for.

MATT: You guys return, and you relay what you found to the rest of the group as you guys are preparing yourselves. At this point, the sun has set, and the night itself is going from red to dark purple to a proper evening sky. Anything else you wish to prepare for the evening before you all find yourselves resting?

LIAM: Yeah. Sit on the ground. Your hair's a mess. I undo the braid and I just – starting over.

LAURA: (yelps)

LIAM: Hold still.

MATT: All right. Anyone else?

MARY: Can I go speak to Keyleth about what I saw?

MATT: Yeah.

MARY: Keyleth, I saw something strange down there. I told everyone before, but I just don't know what it is, and I'm not quite sure how to go about finding out what's inside there. There's no plant life whatsoever, and you have a connection, do you not, to plants, to trees? A much stronger one than I certainly do, I would imagine.

MARISHA: I do. I could attempt to see what happened. What do you mean, there was no plant life?

MARY: Well, I went down. There were two entrances, and obviously they had crumbled and were no longer accessible, and it seemed like there was one more, but around it– there was pretty substantial plant life all around, coming out from the ground, but in about a ten-foot area, there was nothing there. And I tried to get down in with my snout, but all I did was kick up more silt, and I couldn't really see anything.

MARISHA: Strange. This was at the bottom of the ocean floor?

MARY: Of the loch, yes.

LAURA and MARY: The loch.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if that sounds like anything familiar and could be a problem?

MATT: Sure, go ahead and make a nature check.

LAURA: Did it seem like a perfect circle, Zahra, or was it jaggedy?

MATT: It wasn't mathematically perfect, but it was noticeable to be a section of the lake floor that was glaring to be missing in a large patch.

LAURA: How soft was the ground when you dug into it? It was softer than the rest of the ground?

MATT: It was very soft.

MARY: I just stuck my snout in it, and it kicked up all the mud, and I couldn't see anything after that.

LAURA: Sounds to me like a creature that would burrow.

MARISHA: It's possible. 18.

MATT: 18? From what you understand, the reasons for something to not grow on the bottom of the lake would mean that the dirt and the surrounding earth would have to be disturbed enough to where nothing could take root.

WILL: It's a lair.

LAURA: Do I know of any creatures that are underwater–

MARISHA: That burrow? Giant worms?

LAURA: Is it like the worms that we encountered before?

MATT: From what you know and have researched about the worm you discovered previously, they tend to favor more rocky, mountainous terrain than underwater. There are many creatures that can burrow.

MARISHA: Are there any underwater serpents?

MATT: Plenty of underwater serpents. There's all sorts of manner of creatures in this world.

LAURA: It's possible it's a creature that's burrowing, or it's possible that's an opening into our underwater cavern, and nothing can grow there.

MARISHA: It could be a sinkhole. It could lead to–

WILL: Could be a chimney.

MARISHA: Unlikely, but it could be a chimney.

MARY: Working for the Slayer's Take, and having done research on the animals that we have destroyed for money, would there be anything that we would know about serpents, or another creature that might inhabit this loch?

MATT: Serpents in lakes? Nothing that would be monumental beyond actual water serpents, which are minor inconveniences and just natural creatures. Anything of this size, per se– there are all sorts of entities that it could be, but none that would be specific to a lake location, necessarily. Whether it be a subterranean creature that uses it for passage, or if there's something that lives in the lake, or is part of the lake, living in the water itself, nothing comes to mind, from your experience.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: It's past sunset. It's now in proper night.

MARISHA: Let me go take a look, real quick.

LAURA: You're going underwater now? It's freezing cold!

TRAVIS: We're all going in there, anyway.

MARISHA: I can do my beast thing. I'll be fine. I jump in and go shark form.

LIAM: I go to the edge of the loch and watch.

WILL: So do I.

MATT: Okay, so the two of you are waiting at the edge of the loch? Keyleth jumps off the edge, and in midair, forms into this giant shark form that slams into the surface of the cold water through the opening that Grog had already opened.

LAURA: She's really attractive now, isn't she? That shark.

LIAM: I'm with Kash, man. What?

LAURA: Huh?

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: I can't do nature, or anything like that?

MATT: Are you inspecting the ruin? What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Can I see if the hole is natural-made, or man-made?

MATT: Investigation check.

MARISHA: Damn it.

MATT: There's a difference between your knowledge of nature vs. actually having to investigate a specific detail.

MARISHA: 14?

MATT: 14. If you're looking at the area that she was mentioning, where the plant life is missing, it doesn't appear to be man-made, by any means. It just looks to have formed by some perpetual disturbance of the muddy earth in that vicinity.

LAURA: Sounds like a creature.

MATT: Anything else you want to investigate while you're down there?

MARISHA: Does there appear to be any type of motion, or does it look like it's going downward, or is it just flat?

MATT: It has some variation to it, and there's a portion that appears to have been dug up, or at least, there is a slight indentation.

MARISHA: Let me do a quick lap around the ruins and see if I see anything that jumps out at me.

MATT: Okay. Make another investigation check about the ruins, specifically.

MARISHA: Oy. 11.

MATT: 11. Looking about, same details that she made out about it. You do see there is one other stone entrance of the partially tilted stone structure. Looks almost like there was a double doorway there, at one side of it, but a series of stones and a portion of the structure have crumbled in on it, and it has blocked the passage.

MARISHA: Does it look to be a similar downward suction thing going on like the other hole?

(laughter)

MATT: Looks like a partially collapsed, or completely collapsed entrance to this structure.

MARISHA: Okay.

WILL: “Downward suction thing.”

(laughter)

MARISHA: That's the scientific term.

MATT: CSI: Vasselheim.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I bounce out.

MATT: Okay. The shark (boosh) out of the water, catches you off for a second, almost Jaws-ride style.

MARISHA: Three point landing. Hi, guys.

LIAM: Fin, fin.

MARISHA: Yeah, fin, fin. Land shark.

MATT: There you go. Keyleth reverts to her normal form.

MARISHA: I'm with Zahra. Seems like something scary is probably burrowing down there. We'll probably just have to avoid it tomorrow.

MARY: There are no other entrances. That could be the entrance.

TALIESIN: We can unblock some of the blocked entrances. That's what we're going to have to do, is unblock the blocked entrance.

LIAM: It's going to be a big day tomorrow. We should probably get some sleep.

MARY: When I went around the ruins, did I notice how large the stones were that had fallen in for the blocked entrance?

MATT: They varied in size, because it was part of the wall that had fallen in on itself, so there are sections that are three, three and a half feet in diameter, and there are also a number of smaller, head-sized rocks and chunks that had all filled in this space. A lot of the general soot and mud that had gathered as part of the lake's creation had filled in and covered elements of it and seeped in to form this pucker-point, if you will.

LAURA: (laughs) Pucker point.

TALIESIN: It's getting weird tonight.

MARY: It's an anus of the loch. The loch has an anus.

LAURA: We should settle down to sleep.

LIAM: (Scottish accent) Oh, you're going to Loch Anus, are you?

MARY: (Scottish accent) I love Loch Anus! It's very muddy. Very muddy. Well, it is! I put my nose in it.

(all make sounds of dismay)

MARY: I did, as a crocodile.

MATT: Why are you making it weird?

(laughter)

LAURA: As we're settling down to sleep, I make sure that Trinket is laying between Kash and Keyleth, always.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I just snuggle up with Trinket. Hey, bud.

LAURA: Yeah. Trinket, keep Keyleth warm. She's cold. She was in the water.

MATT: All right.

WILL: He's a big bear.

MATT: He's a very big bear, and the moment that you glance over and give a look. Without even looking at you, you just hear this, (growls).

WILL: Okay, fair enough.

MATT: All right. Anything else you wish to prepare for the evening?

TALIESIN: I'm good.

MATT: All right. You all find yourselves asleep–

ALL: Wait, wait, wait!

LIAM: I'll take first watch.

(laughter)

WILL: Who's watching?

LIAM: What are you doing, man?

MARY: Then they all died in their sleep.

LAURA: You need to rest. You got beat up.

LIAM: We take fucking turns.

LAURA: You go to sleep. I'm going to stay up for a little bit because I'm fine.

MARY: I'll stay up with Vex.

LIAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Wake me up when you're done with your shift.

MARISHA: Yeah, wake me up whenever.

LAURA: We climb up in the tree and keep watch.

LIAM: I find the only empty spot of fur on Trinket left and snuggle into it.

MATT: Okay. The whole process of getting Trinket up into the tree itself is hilarious.

LAURA: It's difficult.

MATT: It's a group effort, to a certain extent. There's a difference between climbing a tree and getting up into a tree and then getting into a comfortable place where you can rest and not destroy the tree. It's a combination of minor druidic talents to create an element of the tree's growth that would be able to support a weight the size of a bear.

MARISHA: Yeah, I grow a basket.

MATT: Yeah. You've done it before.

TALIESIN: A bear basket.

LAURA: Trinket's very thankful.

MATT: All right, the two of you keep watch for the first watch. We'll say for about a four-hour period. Okay. As the end of your watch progresses, I need you both to make a perception check.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MARY: Each of us?

MATT: The two that were taking watch. The twins.

LAURA: He went to bed. I was awake.

MARY: We stayed up.

WILL: Because something's coming out of Loch Anus.

SAM: A dark force is coming out of Loch Anus.

LAURA: It's okay, I'm good. 34.

MARY: Six.

MATT: Looking off towards the other side of the lake, you see, under what little bit of moonlight is peeking through the cloud cover over the area, which breaks up every now and then. You can see a few stars glistening, and a little of the moon peeks through. Catches your attention, specifically, as the moon is the essence of your patron. Through your vision, you can see a handful of small– I say small. Small from this distance, but relatively large, Trinket-sized furry entities that cluster up to the edge of the lake on the opposite side.

LAURA: Trinket-sized furry entities? I can't see if they're actually bears.

MATT: Not at this distance, no.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone around me, and I stealth. We're already stealthed.

TRAVIS: What's the circumference of the lake?

MATT: The full distance around it? I'd say 250 to 300 feet. It's not a huge lake.

TRAVIS: It's a giant pond.

WILL: So they're not that far away, then?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: They're about 50, 60 feet from you guys right now.

MARY: I have darkvision. Can I see them?

MATT: Darkvision up to a certain distance.

MARY: 60 feet.

MATT: I'd say, best you can look at it, you've encountered these in the past, and this appears to be a small group of evening-wandering owlbears that are passing through the vicinity.

LAURA: Owlbears!

MARY: I can talk to them.

LIAM: Big, angry bastards.

SAM: Oh, well why didn't you just say so?

MATT: They do not appear to notice your presence, and are just passing through.

LAURA: Let's just watch them.

MARY: What are they?

SAM: Throw things at them!

LAURA: We just sit and enjoy this magical moment of seeing the rare owlbear in person.

MARISHA: (whispering) So majestic.

SAM: Quick! Start eating a Tootsie Pop.

MARY: One.

LAURA AND MARY: Two.

ALL: Three!

(laughter)

MATT: Mr. Owl's bad, but Mr. Turtle was a real dick because he's the one who sent the kid to it, knowing full well the owl was going to eat that treat. The true villain's Mr. Turtle.

WILL: What about the education of the kid, where he's got to go to animals to learn things– oh, forget it.

LIAM: Half the audience is going, “yeah.” And half the audience is going, “what the fuck are they talking about?”

MATT: You get slightly nervous as the owlbears make their way closer to your edge of the lake, going to where the initial breaking of the ice was set by Grog. They all drink of the ice-cold water, and then eventually make their way scare on the opposite side of the forest.

LAURA: Did they leave any feathers behind?

MATT: A couple, maybe?

LAURA: After they get away, I want to climb down and gather the feathers that they left behind.

MATT: You find two owlbear feathers.

LAURA: Okay!

MARY: We can put them in our hair.

LAURA: I want to fletch an arrow. Owlbear arrows.

MATT: Okay. What kits do you have with you?

LAURA: Oh, shit. Really? You know. Those ones I have.

MATT: Make a dexterity check. Just a straight dexterity check.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Where did you get those thieves' tools?

LAURA: I have thieves' tools because I'm a thief now.

LIAM: Where did you get them? Did you buy them?

LAURA: I stole them, dude.

LIAM: Stole them from where? When? I don't remember that. Did that happen in-game, or did you make that up?

LAURA: Matt told me I have thieves' tools! Dick. 27. 27 dexterity.

MATT: He is asleep. Talking in his sleep.

MARY: Voice in my head. Brother. Twin.

LAURA: Shut up!

MATT: You finish out the rest of your watch. Using the moonlight at your disposal, you manage to make a couple of owlbear arrows with the feathers you found.

LAURA: These are special.

MATT: They're functional. They'll do.

LAURA: Cool.

TRAVIS: They're fucking feathers.

LAURA: Shut up. I'm writing, “two owlbear arrows.”

MATT: Next watch?

LIAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Hello.

MATT: All right. You guys go to sleep. The two of you stay up. All right. You watch and the next four hours go by, unhindered.

LAURA: Oh, I warn them there's owlbears in the area before I go to sleep.

LIAM: Where? What the–

WILL: About three hours into their shift, can I come and relieve him?

LIAM: Wait! I wanted to talk to him. You've got to wait.

(laughter)

WILL: I'll wait. I'll wait.

LIAM: Percival.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: De Rolo. How are you doing? A lot's going on. A lot. But it hasn't been that long.

TALIESIN: No, I'm pleased for the distraction, honestly. I feel– (sighs)

LIAM: Has Orthax fully left the building?

TALIESIN: I don't hear anything anymore, if that's what you're asking.

LIAM: It is.

TALIESIN: I think– I think all I'm manifesting at this point is scars. Honestly, I feel a little lost now. I'm really not entirely sure what I'm doing with myself.

LIAM: Can I tell you, I believe you are a good man.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: If you listen to your better angels, and they're within your friends. Listen to them. I don't want to be pushy. I'm sorry. But you have a family, if you want it.

TALIESIN: I know. I've been thinking, a lot, about why we're together and what we're doing.

LIAM: I think we all are, yeah.

TALIESIN: And the conclusion that I've been coming to so far (sighs) and Pike being the exception to this rule, as she's the exception to so many things, is I think we're very broken people, but I think together, we are far greater than the sum of our parts. I like who we are together, and I think that's important.

LIAM: I agree with that.

TALIESIN: And I like the influence that everyone has on each other, and this includes, perhaps, you taking some strides with yourself. (sighs)

LIAM: How do you mean?

TALIESIN: It's good to want things. It's very, very good to want things. It's also very, very good to have things. It's good to– it's good to find the things that are important to you and move towards them. I'm in a place where I'm realizing that I have to make decisions about what's important, and I'm a little envious that you seem to be ahead of the curve on that.

LIAM: I wish I felt that way.

TALIESIN: I know.

LIAM: Well. I started talking to you. I just– I'm sorry if I've done anything to offend you.

TALIESIN: Never.

LIAM: We're a bit of an awkward family, but we are trying.

TALIESIN: And I apologize for any of the mistakes I've made, and honestly any of the mistakes I'm likely to make, but I am starting to imagine a better version of myself. I'm not quite sure who that is yet, but there is a destiny, I think, for us all together.

LIAM: This is all a lot bigger than us individually now.

TALIESIN: We've been given mighty deeds to accomplish. We will rise. Or if we fail, no one will ever know. (chuckles)

LIAM: (laughs) There's comfort in that. All right. I've said my piece.

MATT: At which point, you hear a voice say, “Good. I'm trying to sleep.”

(laughter)

MATT: The clinking of armor as Kima rolls over on one of the branches and is face-palming at the conversation.

LIAM: You are really fucking cool. You know that, don't you?

MATT: At this point, you hear a distant screech that echoes across the night sky. All of you wake up. While not extremely loud, it is very noticeable and cuts through the silence, as there is a very still wind tonight.

LIAM: Even if my sister's waking up, I kick her hard in the ass.

LAURA: Ah! Fuck you!

MATT: You two, make a perception check.

SAM: Have we achieved our long rest yet?

MATT: Not yet, no.

LIAM: 22.

TALIESIN: 17.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I have Pass Without a Trace cast on us–

MATT: As you went to sleep, you didn't.

LAURA: Shitballs…

(laughter)

MATT: As you guys are coming back to consciousness, you see a shape that's just– can't make out the actual details of it, but it coasts across the distant sky, across the clouds, and a little bit of moonlight framing the image.

TALIESIN: I pull out Bad News and I'm just going to try and use the scope to trail.

MATT: Okay. You pick it up and what you see in the distance is a very, very large bird, cresting across the distance. It doesn't appear to be coming in your direction, but it just slowly makes its way just over the opening in the canopy.

LIAM: I am of course reminded of the giant roc. Is it the same shape?

MATT: It's pretty damn close. It disappears over the opposite side–

SAM: Wait, is it our guy?

MARISHA: He lived!

LIAM: After I've kicked her, I grab Keyleth by the shoulder and I start waking her up. Roc. Roc. Roc!

MARISHA: Does it look like the same one?

MATT: It does. You catch it just before it disappears over the distant horizon. It arcs away and then vanishes past.

MARISHA: (whispering) He made it!

TALIESIN: It's very pretty, I don't understand what–

LAURA: It's the cow-roc. When we were cows! When we saved a roc.

TALIESIN: Was I? I don't think I was there.

MARISHA: Percy was having– you were having an episode. And locked yourself in the basement.

LAURA: Oh shit, Percy.

MARY: Kash, it's the big bird.

WILL: I remember that.

LAURA: You've seen it?

MARY and WILL: Of course, of course.

WILL: When were you cows?

MARISHA: Oh, it's a long story.

WILL: Okay, fair enough.

MARISHA: We saved him, though, and we told him to come here!

WILL: We see him all the time. A fixture in the night sky.

TRAVIS: It was just a bird? I go back to sleep.

MATT: The rest of you go back to sleep. You guys are finishing up your watch. Did you want to–?

WILL: I'll take a watch.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm out.

MATT: Okay. So is it just Kash taking this next one?

SAM: Oh, I'll– nope. (laughs) Do I need my sleep still?

MATT: No, you've had a full eight hours' rest.

SAM: Okay, I'll stay with you.

WILL: Good. We'll nap it up.

LAURA: I elbow him. You're snoring a-fucking-gain–

LIAM: Shut the fuck up.

SAM: So. I've seen you checking out some of the members of our little group, here.

WILL: This is a very interesting group you have here, that's for sure.

SAM: Listen, Vax doesn't fly that way, I don't think. I know you've been eyeing him pretty good.

WILL: Huh?

SAM: Vax. I'm just looking out for you, brother. He's not available for you.

WILL: What else do your keen eyes perceive?

SAM: I see the way you've been flirting with him. It's adorable.

WILL: That's funny. I didn't think anyone was going to pick up on it.

SAM: Well, I'm a romantic, so I notice these things.

WILL: You are that. You are that. He has a way about him, you have to admit.

SAM: He does. He has a flair– it's not my thing, obviously. I go for the lady hookers.

WILL: Well. To each his own, am I right?

SAM: Yes, yes, but no, you have good taste in men.

WILL: Yeah. Thank you.

SAM: He's a dashing young rogue.

WILL: He is. And this crew is lucky to have you.

SAM: Yes. Yes. They are. They really are. That's your keen eye at work!

WILL: Well. We all see what we see, don't we? Incredible. Just– incredible.

SAM: Can I give you a bit of advice?

WILL: Please. Please do.

SAM: You know, you have to follow your heart, so if you do have feelings for the lad, you at least have to tell him. Even if he won't return them to you.

WILL: It's funny, I've been wanting to have a conversation with him for quite a while now. We have a lot to discuss.

SAM: Oh yes, what about?

WILL: Oh, you know, this and that. Feelings, as you would call them. Romance, as you would say.

SAM: You are so in touch with those.

WILL: I know.

(laughter)

WILL: I do my best. When you've lived the sheltered and wonderful life I have–

SAM: Oh, yes?

WILL: It's not often you meet a man like that. So you run towards him. Some would say, with your spear out.

(laughter)

SAM: TMI, my friend. TMI–

WILL: That. Is funny. Well, you're right, we do have quite a bit to talk about.

SAM: Yeah, we have another two and a half hours on this watch.

LAURA: I wake up. Can you guys talk a little quieter? Some of us are sleeping.

WILL: Are you going to be able to get her on board with my little plan for her brother?

SAM: I think she just wants her brother to be happy, you know.

WILL: And that's wonderful. How do you come up with your songs, by the way?

SAM: Oh, well, you know. I think of like, a word, and then I try to think of a rhyme for it. Like, 'Kashaw', like, what could that be? That could be 'pshaw'! You know, something like that, I don't know, I'm working on that, I'm working on it.

WILL: That's amazing. It's a skill that I've never had before. But I guess as you said, when you really take in the world and can see people and how they feel, you can really write a powerful ballad.

SAM: I'm a man of the world, I'm well-traveled, I'm cultured–

TALIESIN: (snorts awake) Rickshaw, rickshaw– (snores)

SAM: Rickshaw's a good one! Let me tell you, secret weapon. I sleep near Percy a lot and he rhymes in his sleep. It's the strangest thing. Here, I'll show you, I'll show you. I haven't a fear in the world!

TALIESIN: (mutters incomprehensibly)

(laughter)

SAM: Sometimes it takes a while.

WILL: I don't. I don't understand.

SAM: It takes a while.

WILL: Okay.

TALIESIN: (mumbles) Something rhymes with world.

SAM: See? It's amazing. Every time. Every time.

WILL: Absolutely incredible.

MATT: As the hours pass–

(laughter)

MATT: Through intense conversation and learning about one another, the sky comes to a glow with the rising sun.

WILL: For the love of god, let something attack us.

MATT: The rest of the group finds themselves to consciousness. The cold morning air and frozen bits of early-morning dew across the grass and growth in the forest.

LIAM: Hm, my ears feel really hot this morning, I don't know why that is.

TALIESIN: I've been breathing on them.

LIAM: What?

TRAVIS: What about the little hole in the lake that we smashed? Is it still there, or did it freeze over?

MATT: The hole's still there, but there is a very thin layer of what appears to be forming ice that could be easily cracked.

TRAVIS: I got it, I'll do that. And I go and take my morning wee right on the little hole where it's starting to freeze back over.

MATT: There you go. Grog has now effectively peed in the Marrowglade Loch.

WILL: Kash walks over to also pee and looks down at Grog and goes, “Holy god.” And just turns and walks.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And that's canon, folks.

TRAVIS: That's the sound of 20,000 pens hitting paper.

WILL: For the love of god.

MATT: Two weeks, folks. We've been storing this up. All right. So what's the plan, guys?

LAURA: I guess we should breathe underwater and head down, right?

WILL: Can we handle the cold, is the question I want to know.

MARISHA: That is true. How cold is that lake?

MATT: It's– the surface is near-freezing by the just general temperature of the morning air. You're liable to get hypothermia if you spend any extended period of time in the water.

LAURA: Extended period.

WILL: Can we send somebody down to try to find the entrance and get in before the rest of us go down there and flounder around?

LAURA: I can, well. I have really good perception, so. I can go down and see if I can find an opening that you guys didn't see yesterday.

LIAM: I'm going to take a walk around the whole thing and see if I can see anything on the edges.

MARISHA: How big– you said the lake was like 350 feet–

MATT: It's about 350 feet circumference around. It's not a very, very large–

WILL: I can destroy water, but I don't know.

MARISHA: I can control water.

LAURA: Could you, like, make a, you know, parting of the Red Sea sort of thing?

MARISHA: I might be able to, actually, yeah.

LAURA: Try that.

LIAM: Did a 22 perception check around the edge of the loch find anything?

MATT: Nothing beyond the edge of the lake. There isn't, I mean, you find bits and pieces of broken stone, but nothing that seems to be indicative of a change in topography.

TALIESIN: I would actually say breathe underwater would be the safer bet in case something happens. If we have to escape, we don't want to necessarily rely on your consciousness.

SAM: I can make us all look like fish.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. Useful. That could be useful if something was attacking and they wouldn't attack fish.

TALIESIN: Yes, they're like, oh look, fish, I'm not going to eat that. I'm so bored of it.

SAM: I'll workshop that one.

LIAM: Yeah, it's good that you have it, but just hold onto it for a rainy day.

MARISHA: I can focus to part the waters for about ten minutes.

LIAM: Ten minutes? That's more than enough time.

LAURA: I'll run in, search around.

SAM: You? We'll all run in!

LAURA: We'll all run in, search around like maniacs for ten minutes.

LIAM: Grog, are you ready to dig?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: And then if we don't find anything, then I can still cast Breathe Water on us.

SAM: How much water can you displace?

MATT: A cube of up to 100 feet on a side, so you could pretty much part the entire lake.

LAURA: Let's do it and run down and search.

MARY: In doing so, could she get all the water out of the lake so that it would be gone forever, or is it just a temporary parting?

LAURA: I feel like that's killing a lot of wildlife.

MARISHA: Are there a lot of fish in here?

MATT: You've been around. There are some fish that live in here.

LIAM: Let's just get in there. Let's not destroy the loch.

MARISHA: Yeah, I probably can't even get all of it out, but let me– Let me see what I can do.

MATT: So you cast Control Water?

MARISHA: I guess I cast Control Water.

LAURA: Keyleth, I have total faith in you.

MARISHA: Thank you.

SAM: Go, Keyleth. Go.

MATT: As Keyleth completes the spell in a rapid series of hand motions, concentrating, her eyes illuminate with the power of her druidic, divine energies. She extends her hands and the water itself in the center of the lake, the ice cracks up, almost like a fissure is building in the center. It's almost like tin foil being folded back from the inside out. The ice is actually breaking and being pulled to the sides, and as the ice is pulled back, the water is pulled back with it, like someone has torn into the surface of the earth and peeled the ice back like a sheet. It forms this long tunnel that leads directly down into the center of the lake. The water is being held aloft over the surface, not actually being cast to the sides out into the river. You could empty the lake, for the most part, if you wanted to do it now, but right now you're just holding it aloft as these two water pillars.

TALIESIN: Could you build an ice tunnel, perhaps? Take some of the ice and actually structure a–

MARISHA: I was going to say, actually, I think as Control Water, I can also change if it freezes and if it's solid? Can I freeze the edges of this? Make an awesome–

MATT: You cannot refreeze water with this spell, unfortunately. You can just control its shape. The temperature is a whole different ballgame.

TALIESIN: But there is frozen– we could take the existing ice and create–

LAURA: You know what? I'm running in. And Keyleth, just be ready to throw it away.

MARISHA: I'm just going to focus and keep pushing it out.

LAURA: I run in and start looking for anything.

MARISHA: Go! Move fast, you have ten minutes!

MARY: I go to the entrance that was blocked and I investigate to see whether or not there's any way we can climb our way through. Focus on the non-vegetative spots and get in.

LAURA: I'm going to that and seeing if there's something there.

MATT: Okay. The stonework– you can start pulling the stones that block the area that lead into that one collapsed entrance, and yeah. You start moving things out of the way and they tumble down to the bottom and stick into the mud. The bottom of the pond is a very interesting sight when it's drained. All the plant life is just sucked together and you're all sloshing through. You're up to your knees with each step as you just sink into the mud.

SAM: It's a super muddy “ahnus.”

MARISHA: I am going to go ahead and start pushing some of the water outwards, out of the lake as I'm keeping it pushed.

LAURA: I go to the hole, to the “ahnus,” and start looking.

MATT: Looking in there, as you begin to step into the mud, it is a thicker portion and your feet begin to sink into it.

TALIESIN: You can control water. Can you control the water in the mud?

MARISHA: I've got a lot on my mind right now, Percy!

TALIESIN: Okay. Okay, I was just throwing it out there.

MATT: To a certain extent, you can control elements of it, but because the earth itself is not part of it, it does resist the spell effect, so it would be very minimal effects. As you step into it, you begin to sink.

LAURA: Oh, I just stepped right in, because I'm really smart, you guys. Hold onto me.

LIAM: I start pulling.

MATT: Make a strength check.

LIAM: Oh, thank god I'm so strong. That is– I'm going to use Luck, and that's shit.

LAURA: I'm going. I'm sinking. Grog?

LIAM: 11. 11?

MATT: All right. The two twins are now, (sucking sound) being pulled in into this small mire.

TRAVIS: What happened to you two?

LAURA: Grog, help. Seriously, quick.

LIAM: Remember how happy you were that I was alive? That's not going to last much longer.

LAURA: Come on, come on. Grog, help!

TRAVIS: How deep are they?

MATT: She's about up to her waist now.

TRAVIS: Nah, you're good. Just swim.

MATT: Up to upper torso. Vax is now getting to right around upper thigh.

TRAVIS: Oh, look. I mean, you're not even twinsies about it. You're at different lengths. You've got to even out a bit.

WILL: Don't struggle, or you'll sink faster.

MATT: Trinket's all, (concerned grunts).

LAURA: I take out my Rope of Infinite Twine and throw it to Trinket's mouth from far away.

MATT: (chomp, grunt)

LAURA: Pull. Me. Out.

MATT: All right, and with that, Trinket begins to back up. (sucking footsteps) Can't get traction in the mud. He's trying to pull, but is sliding in space.

LAURA: This sucks, you guys!

TALIESIN: I'm going to try to grab the rope.

LAURA: Grog, why are you being a dick-fuck? I need to get out of this mud. Seriously?

TALIESIN: Ugh. That's a 12.

MATT: There's no movement on this point. You guys are trying to pull and they're not sinking right at the moment. There is tension on the rope, but they're not being pulled out, either. They're just held in place.

MARISHA: You all had better be making damn good use of this time!

LAURA: Great use, Keyleth. We found an entrance point. Ish.

SAM: Are we just at the edge of the pond?

MATT: You guys are now in the center of the base of the pond.

SAM: But we haven't gotten to the part–

MATT: No, you guys are at the base of the stone structure, which is not too far from the section they're sinking in.

LIAM: Dying in slow motion over here.

MATT: You've been pulling rocks away from the crumbled entrance, which is much easier now that there isn't water pressed against it, so you're actually moving rocks out of the way, and you're making some headway into this entrance.

MARY: Do I even see them?

MATT: You see out of the corner of your eye, them talking and shouting to each other.

MARY: Grog, come over here! Darling, I've got some rocks you can move. Maybe we can get in on this side.

LAURA: You're not going to even help? Cool.

MARY: I can't see you. Corner of my eye. I hear you squabbling. You guys squabble all the time.

TRAVIS: Now, what are we moving?

LAURA: Seriously, we're dying! We're going to die.

LIAM: We are sinking in the mud over here!

MATT: Kima runs up to you guys, looks over and goes, “Ah, they're fine,” and starts grabbing rocks.

TRAVIS: Here we go, let's move this shit.

SAM: Hey, guys, you want a hand?

LAURA: Yes. Please get us out with Bigby.

SAM: So I will cast Bigby's Hand. And I will gently lift them up and cup them as I pull them up from the muck.

MATT: Easy enough to do. The giant, shimmering arcane hand of Bigby scoops both of the twins up and dislodges them from the muddy surface, setting you guys down gently, and drifts to your side with a thumbs-up.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Since we have Bigby's Hand, why don't we use it to–

SAM: Sure, sure, sure. What do you need me to lift?

LAURA: Can you scoop out all the mud in that fucking hole that just tried to kill us?

SAM: All right, let's scoop. We're scooping. I'm scooping.

MATT: Are you scooping mud, or are you scooping stone? I didn't hear which one you're doing.

SAM: I go with Zahra. What do you want me to scoop, Zahra?

MARY: Oh, well, did I even hear any of this? I'm still over there with Grog, moving–

TRAVIS: We're moving rocks.

MARY: We're moving rocks. (louder) I think we're going to move rocks. Can you give us a hand with the rocks?

SAM: Sure. Here it comes. Whee!

MATT: Okay. (laughs) I'll say, the two of you guys make strength checks, and you go ahead and roll a d20 and add your charisma– no, Bigby's Hand is–

TRAVIS: 20.

TALIESIN: Wow, that's your wisdom modifier. Holy cow.

SAM: Is that good or bad?

TALIESIN: That's awful. That's amazing. I've never seen anything like it.

MATT: Yeah, plus eight to it.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. 20 and?

MARY: Four.

MATT: Four. So you're “helping.”

MARY: I'm more of a delegator.

MATT: Yeah, you're the foreman of this exercise. But between Grog and Bigby's Hand, though, large sections of stone are being scooped out and tossed to the side.

MARISHA: I start tossing water out of this lake.

MATT: You're hitting the five- to six-minute mark. It's a ten-minute duration. You're a little past halfway.

MARISHA: Seeing that they're still doing a lot of work, I'm going to start seeing if I can push some of this water out of the lake a bit.

MATT: Okay. You push some of the water out of the way. Some of it is splashing off to the side and being soaked into the local dirt and earth. You're still holding about half of the pond itself up at the sides. You guys are beginning to make headway through, and you see a lot of the stones here have been pushed in with suction from the mud and kept a barrier, and about three minutes later, you begin to find an opening, and you start pulling out a big plug of stone, and you can see beyond that, there is an actual stairway, and a pitch-black, lightless entrance that goes deeper into this actual structure.

TALIESIN: Let's go.

TRAVIS: Well, problem. Stairway, but when water comes back in, you drown in that stairway. So–

WILL: We'll have to block it up behind us.

MARY: Once this is done, can you cast one of those–

MARISHA: Maybe? I start walking towards them.

LAURA: Once we're in and water's covering it, we're not going to be able to get these stones away.

LIAM: Keyleth, can you walk down this way while still doing that, and Scanlan, can you use Bigby's Hand to block the hole once Keyleth is past you?

SAM: For a very small amount of time.

LIAM: Yeah, and then Keyleth, can you make a wall of stone once you've let down the water?

MARISHA: Yes, if we try and go super fast.

LIAM: Let's do it.

MARY: I can cast Light and get us down there.

SAM: Okay, I can make a wall behind us or something.

MARISHA: I go and start heading towards the tunnel and pushing all the water outwards.

MATT: Okay, so keeping the water at bay, now rotating around your movement into the center, you all make your way towards that rocky entrance. It's just big enough to get each of you through, Grog and Trinket, at the very largest. You all push your way through, climbing in the other side. Keyleth, concentrating, steps inside as the last one as you begin, with the last few minutes you have.

SAM: I guess I'll just pack it with mud and rocks, right?

MATT: Just taking it all. Chunk after chunk after chunk. Just at the tail end of your concentration. The hand pulls in the last plug as the water (crashing water sound) comes crashing into itself, filling the space. As you all are standing there, the light of Zahra's staff lighting the area, there's the impact of water rushing in against the stonework, and you can feel the whole place shake from the impact, and immediately water begins to rush in through the cracks of this created section.

LAURA: Oh!

SAM: I'm not a good builder!

(laughter)

LIAM: Hold it, Scanlan, hold it for a moment!

MATT: I was going to say, based on the push of the water against the rock and Bigby's Hand against that, I need you to go ahead and roll a d20 and add eight for Bigby's strength to try and hold the plug in place.

SAM: 24.

MATT: 24 total roll. With that impact, you can see streams of water pushing through and mud and other elements filling the gaps of the stonework, Bigby's Hand pushing up against it. Looks like the stonework was ready to give, and the water begins to go ahead and fill this vicinity, the hand pushes back until the streams that are peeking through turn to a trickle, and by the time the spell finally comes to an end, the hand vanishes, the plugged hole gives a little bit, and then seems to keep itself in place. Water's still dribbling out and trickling, there is still a gradual bit of moisture passing through here, and you don't know how long it'll hold, but for the time being, it seems to be holding.

SAM: Yikes.

MARY: Well done, Scanlan.

SAM: Thank you for the idea.

LIAM: Well, we could risk it or– Keyleth, are you able to put up a wall?

TALIESIN: I think we can risk it for now.

TRAVIS: Yeah, risk it. Because we have to come back through this way, probably.

LAURA: That's true, if something happens you can put it up.

MARISHA: Let's head downstairs, and we might not need to worry about this in a second.

TRAVIS: Hey, sneaky-sneaky, go take a look.

LIAM: Are you talking to her or me?

TRAVIS: No, you, shitbrain.

LAURA: Hey, you know what? We're not doing anything for you, you fuck, 'cause you didn't even try to help us.

TRAVIS: Oh, look at me, digging in a muddy hole that led to nowhere.

LIAM: I let them argue and I skulk forward. While they're fighting. Natural 20.

WILL: See that? My man's going to check some stuff out.

SAM: Ah, you must be so proud.

WILL: Very excited.

MATT: So, as Vax vanishes from your sight, disappearing into the shadows down the stairway that leads forward, we're going to take a quick break.

(cheering)

MATT: We'll be right back, so get your snacks, get your bathroom on, we'll be here as soon as possible.

LIAM: Get your Purvan.

ALL: Get your Purvan!

MATT: You're all going to die. All of you.

MARY: And they never made it out of the tunnel.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So we've had our little break here, a couple quick announcements to give to you guys. One, our first winner of the giveaway today, of the chatroom giveaway for our various prize package is BlackDeath2099.

(laughter)

MATT: Congratulations. I'm glad we have a little ways off before we have to worry about that. Or maybe Marvel will rekindle that comic series. But yeah, so, congratulations, BlackDeath2099. Also, a reminder to all of our European viewers, we here in the US, 'cause we're ridiculous and still do this whole time change thing, we are springing forward, it's our Daylight Savings, so the show will actually be airing an hour earlier for you guys, which might be pretty good for you guys.

WILL: So everyone can work on the farms.

MARISHA: Yes. Which no one– and it doesn't even work there.

WILL: Damn you, Benjamin Franklin.

MARY: What is today for Critical Role?

MATT: Today is our one-year anniversary of the stream.

(cheering)

MATT: We were so rushed at the start, we didn't get around to it.

LAURA: We didn't even talk about how it's our one-year anniversary–

MATT: It's our one-year, it's been a rushed day.

SAM: What do you get for a one-year anniversary? Is it paper?

MARISHA: Paper.

WILL: I got it!

(cheering)

WILL: Happy anniversary.

MATT: So, I mean, thank you guys.

MARISHA: We get tons of fan art, that's paper.

LAURA: That is paper.

MATT: Thank you guys for kicking along with us for a year.

LIAM: We got a very nice anniversary present from Megzilla. From Meg.

LAURA: Oh my gosh, it's so beautiful.

MARISHA: It's my background now.

LAURA: Mine too! Is yours just you? 'Cause mine is just me and Pike!

MARISHA: Me and Pike, it's the only ones, 'cause it can't fit all of us, you have to try and frame it.

LIAM: She's a unifying entity.

MATT: Also, guys, wanted to let you know before we get started here again. You helped our good friend here Ivan, is doing his Kickstarter for the ABC's of RPG's, which is awesome, but one of the stretch goals was to actually have a few pages of Critical Role-related activities for kids within the book, and you guys succeeded in smashing through that stretch goal, so he gave me a couple of the early designs to show off. Here's the–

LAURA: We can show it?

MATT: Yeah, we can show a little bit of the preliminary stuff. So this is the Vex and Vax connect-the-dots.

(cheering)

MATT: So this'll be part of the presentation of that activity, which is fantastic.

LAURA: And this is artwork by Wendy.

MARISHA: Put it on the thing, on the paper.

MATT: On the paper?

MARISHA: Right on– right, yeah. There you go.

MATT: Then we have here, we have the create tattoos for Grog activity sheet.

LIAM: Yes! Yes, I can draw all the penises I want on him!

MATT: So there's that one there. And then here we have the Percy connect your knowledge of the various fantasy creatures activity book.

LAURA: Baby, baby creatures!

WILL: I'd like to point out, the rakshasa with the hands. It's doing jazz hands!

MATT: So those are the really cool art pieces you can look forward to, you guys kicked ass on making that happen and so we have our own little stamp in his amazing creative piece, so thank you for that. Look to that. There's also more stretch goals, I think, before it finishes up, so if you want to smash those records, feel free to check it out.

TALIESIN: Smash.

MATT: Thank you for letting us be part of that, Ivan.

MARY: Grog smash with moon hammer.

MATT: All right. So. Now. As you guys– bringing it back to the game, here. I think those are all the announcements I'm supposed to make there, perfect. Let me get set up here with some proper audio. I want to get some good atmosphere here.

TRAVIS: Imperial Death March?

MARY and LAURA: (sing Imperial March)

(all warble Imperial March)

TALIESIN: Are we Death Star chickens? What's happening?

MATT: That got weird.

LIAM: They just cut the power on our show.

MATT: So. Are you guys all staying at the top of the stairs, or are you staying a little bit behind Vax's movement?

LIAM: I'm 20 feet ahead.

LAURA: We're moving– But we should probably, I don't know, stealth? I don't know what would be alive down here, but there might be undead. Actually, can I take a moment and use Primeval Awareness and sense if there's any undead entities around, any ghostly or undead zombies? Anything undead?

LIAM: And I– sorry. Rolled a 30 for perception.

LAURA: Aberrations?

MATT: Which one are you focusing on? I think you have to choose the type.

LAURA: Let's start with undead.

MATT: Undead? You take a moment, focusing here–

LAURA: Up to six miles.

MATT: Yes. As Vax pushes forward. Nothing catches your attention, undead-wise. There are no undead entities within the vicinity which you can focus on, so that's one thing you don't got to worry about.

LAURA: One thing.

WILL: I think because Z is in the front with her light, Kash backs all the way up to the back and lights a light, as well.

MATT: All right, so the two of you have light from this pitch-dark vicinity, which is helpful for those of human descent. No undead presence in the vicinity. Vax, pushing down this stairwell, it continues down with a slight curvature, almost like a gradual spiral staircase, until eventually it hits a floor area. The flooring here is at a tilt. From what you can see, this whole tomb, this whole ruin, when it sank in, it sank at a slight angle, and the surface of all the stonework here is still slick with water and various liquid that has trickled through over time. You get the sense that there are a number of leaks within this temple, and the pond that would grow larger is steadily slipping into this ruin, and then being filled over time from the rainy and snowy weather as it hits the area. As you hit the bottom and you look around, you see ahead, immediately across the way, as you're the first in there, two small humanoid shapes down this T-junction. To the right and left of you are two tunnels, and there is one ahead, and about 35 to 40 feet ahead of you, you see two humanoid individuals.

LIAM: We've already got company. I see two small little buggers ahead of me. I don't know what they are.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on the group.

SAM: Can you kill them?

LIAM: I don't know yet. Just wait for a second. I'm going to sit for a minute. One minute, and see what they do.

LAURA: Can we stealth?

MARISHA: Yeah, let's all stealth.

MATT: All right. Everyone roll stealth. Are you keeping your light spells up?

MARY and WILL: No.

MATT: Both of you snuff the light spells, so you have zero visibility right now.

LIAM: I am really well-hidden.

MARY: I've got darkvision.

TRAVIS: I do, too.

SAM: So do I.

MATT: Stealth checks from everybody?

LIAM: I am covered in mud.

LAURA: Oh, that's true. We are really camouflaged.

LIAM: The twins are dark right now.

MARISHA: I rolled a natural one.

LAURA: No, add ten to it.

MARISHA: 11.

WILL: 14.

TALIESIN: 32.

SAM: 30.

MARY: 22.

LAURA: 28.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17. With the plus ten?

WILL: 14.

MATT: 14. With the plus ten?

WILL: No, then it's 24.

MATT: 24. Okay.

LIAM: Is there any light here? Dim light?

MATT: There is no light.

MARY: We just doused it. Grog and I can see.

TRAVIS: Darkvision.

MATT: These two figures just walk beyond. What little bit you can see, and both of you guys roll perception checks, those with darkvision right now.

SAM: Oh, wait. Darkvision?

MARY: Natural 20. Natural 20.

WILL: Yeah! That's your second one?

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: 14. The two of you can see these entities. They're humanoid. Bipedal– two arms, two legs, standing up on their legs. However, their feet are these webbed claw-type physicality. They're wearing haphazard leather tunics, wrappings around their wrists, and they're hunched forward as they're walking away from you, deeper into the shadows. Seemingly completely unnoticing of your presence. Their heads are these bowed-forward fish-type visions. You can see they have these bulbous eyes at the edges, jagged, toothy mouths that end at this small point to the end. Very, very fish-like, amphibious-type entities. They both scuffle alongside each other and shuffle into the darkness beyond, down that further hallway.

LIAM: They're walking in pitch black, right?

MATT: Yes.

MARY: We have tunnels left and right?

MATT: Left and right and in front, where they both disappeared.

MARY: We don't hear them speaking, we don't hear them doing anything?

MATT: No, they're just walking.

MARISHA: Do they look to be on patrol? Are they walking back and forth?

MATT: They're just walking. They haven't turned back.

WILL: Are they armed?

MATT: Yes, you can see, both of them have what looks to be a cluster of ropes to one side, hanging off their belt, and have spears that they're clutching and walking along.

MARY: Are the ropes attached to the spears?

MATT: No.

MARY: Do they have eyeballs?

MATT: They do.

MARY: What color are they? I'm sorry.

MATT: There's no color in darkvision. It's black and white.

TRAVIS: Everyone listen up. There's two of them and they're walking away from us down a hall. They don't see us yet.

MARY: They appear to be some sort of fish-like creature. They've got spears and ropes.

LAURA: You know what? I bet if they live in the dark, light will blind them.

MARY: You know? You're very smart.

LIAM: Are we all huddled together at this point?

MATT: They've all gathered down to the bottom–

LIAM: They came up behind me, right? Yeah, so you're talking into your ear to me.

LAURA: Guess what?

LIAM: What? What's going on?

LAURA: There's fish people up ahead.

LIAM: It sounded like that, but I can't see shit down here. Zahra, you were able to see?

MARISHA: I poke my head in between the twins and I go, do you guys have an earache? Does your ear hurt?

LAURA: Can you see us? We can't see anything.

LIAM: You can't see shit, either.

LAURA: Should we get some light?

MARY: Should we– there's a tunnel to the left and there's a tunnel to the right.

LIAM: I pull out my Flametongue Dagger and make dim light.

MATT: Okay, so as the dagger gives off a bit of flame, those of you with low-light vision have extended visual at this point. At this point, too, as you're adjusting to the atmosphere here, there is this very heavy smell of mold and mildew throughout this entire area, and looking down, you can see the bit of light dances across the stone floor that has water trickling across it and leading to one side, to the left, with the tilt of the floor. What do you wish to do?

LIAM: Well, we can follow the fish brothers, or we could check out these two tunnels.

TRAVIS: I like that.

LAURA: I have a question. In my book that I bought for 30 gold, did it mention what level of the multi-level tomb the champion was buried on?

MATT: No, there wasn't much detail about the tomb's actual build. It spoke more of the history of the man who was buried there and gave reference to the direction you were traveling to, just to reaffirm you were going in the right way.

LIAM: You got played.

LAURA: I got played. It was a worthless 30 gold, then.

MATT: No, you learned information about the history of the man who's buried here. It's not like every stone structure of ancient history has a book of blueprints available at your local 7-Eleven.

WILL: That was 60 gold.

MATT: Yeah, that's a little more expensive.

MARY: All right, Grog. Since you and I have darkvision– Is it still– did you cast Light?

MATT: No, you can see Vax is holding out his flame dagger. It has a little bit of fire trickling off it. It's ever-so-gently lighting the very local area.

MARY: I'd like to investigate the tunnel to the left.

TRAVIS: And I'll look at the one on the right.

MATT: To the left. You go to the one on the right.

TRAVIS: I tell Vax to stay on my six as I go up.

WILL: And I follow Z.

MATT: Okay. So we have Grog and Vex are heading to the right?

LAURA: Vax.

MATT: Sorry. Grog and Vax are heading to the right, and Zahra and Kash are going to the left. Anyone else? Everyone else staying in the center?

TALIESIN: Staying center.

MARISHA: I'll stay center with Percy.

SAM: I'm going to go with Zahra.

MARY: I've noticed that you all have some sort of earpiece. Do you have any extra?

SAM: No, but I'm going to go with you, so I'll be able to report.

WILL: Oh, great.

MATT: Okay, two of you stay behind.

SAM: Kash, are you sure you don't want to go with Vax?

WILL: No, I'm good. Thank you.

SAM: All right.

MATT: All right, so. Grog and Vax, you guys traverse to the right, with what little light he's giving off the dagger. It continues for about 15 feet before it curves sharply to the right. Roll a perception check, Grog.

TRAVIS: I have that darkvision, too. That's not bad. 17.

MATT: 17? You turn the corner and manage to stop yourself just as your feet meet the edge of where the stone flooring has dropped out. The tunnel itself here just seems to have ended, and there is a chasm that disappears beneath your visual range. A couple of stones (cracking noise) crumble–

TRAVIS: Stop. Stop, stop, stop. Get back. Back up.

MATT: You hear them, after a number of seconds, eventually hit with a slight splash of water.

LIAM: What is it?

TRAVIS: I just think you should go in front of me here, is all.

LIAM: You think I should go– you want me to scout ahead?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it looks a little slick, but just go ahead, just real careful.

LIAM: All right, I walk past–

TRAVIS: No, I'm kidding! Jesus, it falls off into eternity. It's instant death.

LIAM: What the fuck is wrong with you?!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What, you can't see?

LIAM: I really can't get a bead on you.

LAURA: Can you guys keep it down? I can hear you from here.

TRAVIS: I grab my earring and I say, I'm on the right. It is a dead end all the way.

MARY: Can you see down the hole?

LAURA: Is it a dead end? So it's a wall in front of you.

LIAM: I grasp his giant fucking forearm and lean out with the dagger, and how far can I see with this dim light?

MATT: You can see that this collapsed portion goes for about 20, 25 feet, and then the path continues beyond that for about another 20, 25 feet, and then comes to a halt at the opposite side.

LIAM: So there's a big gap and then there's more path further.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like 20 feet. Does anybody climb on anything?

LAURA: Do you see any openings down there?

LIAM: You're not here. You don't even know what we're doing!

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: Can't you climb on shit?

LIAM: I can, but let's see what the others find on their end, and then we'll figure out if we want to deal with this.

TRAVIS: All right. Hey, Scanlan.

SAM: Oi.

TRAVIS: What did you and Zahra find?

SAM: Well–

MATT: So as you guys continue down the other way–

(laughter)

WILL: Meanwhile–

MARY: Back at the ranch.

MATT: You guys step down this surface, and the water is pouring down this way, and as you step, there's this squishing sound. Not from the water, but there is, every ten or so feet, there's a patch of very thick, mucus-y slime that seems to cover portions of the wall and portions of the floor. You slip a little bit and catch yourself, and there is a residue that you have to slough off your boots.

WILL: This is never going to be good.

MATT: Eventually, the tilted tunnel comes to a very tight spiral staircase that descends further down.

MARY: Scanlan, tell them I can see some sort of spiral staircase, but there seems to be a lot of goo here, and I'm always wary of goo.

SAM: Goo is rarely good. We should continue on to find out.

MARY: I agree. Should we– Do we check in with the others and see?

WILL: What are you holding your ear for?

SAM: This is something we all do. I don't know why, we don't need to do this. It's just a thing.

TRAVIS: It's like Professor X.

SAM: You know what? I'm going to try it without. It might feel weird. (louder) Grog, can you hear me? Grog, can you hear me?

TRAVIS: Oh, now I can hear you.

SAM: See, it doesn't work that way.

(laughter)

SAM: Grog, there's a spiral staircase and some snot. So we're going to keep going.

LAURA: Wait, wait. You're going down into the snotty–

SAM: Talking to Grog!

TALIESIN: Let's all go down into the spiral staircase.

LIAM: I heard it, as well. We don't want to split up. Wait there for a minute.

MARISHA: Is there any moss-snot near Percy and I, in the middle of the hall?

MATT: Looking about your general vicinity, very quickly. At your foot, yeah, there's some.

MARISHA: Can I do a check– A snot check?

MATT: Make a nature check.

MARISHA: That one failed me.

WILL: I blame the dice.

MARISHA: Get out of here. Let's do the wood one. Oh, that's good. 29.

MATT: Taking the slickness of it, you were expecting some sort of secretion, and there is no acridness to it. There is nothing about it that seems to jump out at you as a natural creation by a creature. You're not quite sure what the source of it could be. It could be, somehow, over time, slickness that came in through the water, or some other source. You really, in your experience as a druid, have no clear idea as to where this may have come from.

MARISHA: So it's not from a creature, but it is natural?

MATT: It doesn't appear to be natural. The viscousness doesn't match anything you've encountered from nature, so you're not sure what the source is. It doesn't appear to be like a large snail or something like that. The only reason you would know that is from your experience with subterranean creatures, and studying that in your books, and as you go through what you've researched, nothing jumps out at you.

TALIESIN: You've milked a lot of snails, and you've never seen anything like this.

WILL: (laughs) This is the strangest snail milk I've ever seen.

MARY: Does it have any aroma?

MATT: No, actually. No aroma whatsoever. It is relatively featureless other than its viscous texture.

SAM: I'm going to pull a Grog and taste it.

MARISHA: You said there's no acridness?

MATT: Okay, I need you guys to both– no, I'm kidding.

(laughter)

MATT: Flavorless.

MARISHA: Hey, guys. I don't trust this goo. It creeps me out. Just be careful.

LIAM: On our end, there's a big chasm over here, and there is a path on the other side of it, but we'd have to get over the chasm.

MARISHA: I mean, we can manage that, if you think it's not a dead end.

LIAM: But you've got a complete stairway over there with boogers on it.

TALIESIN: I think we want to head down. Down is the way to go.

MATT: They've gone beyond your vision. You don't see them. The path just continues on in the direction they were walking. They have not noticed you and have not seemingly returned yet.

TRAVIS: Like a sentry, I just keep looking that way.

MARY: I think we should go down.

WILL: What do you think about a little bit of light?

MARY: I can still see in the dark for a little while. Let's not alert anything of our presence.

MATT: The two of you are fumbling in complete darkness right now.

LAURA: It's really fucking dark.

MARY: When you cast Light, do you get to control the amount of light, or is it just–

MATT: Sure. I don't see why not.

MARY: All right. I'll cast Light and keep my staff behind me, a faint candlelight as I continue to use my darkvision.

MATT: So do you guys return with the rest of the group, and the group continues down the spiral staircase?

LAURA: I want to keep an eye out for any traps or anything.

MARISHA: I keep an eye on the goo.

TRAVIS: I'll stay in the very back and leaving the Dust of Tracelessness.

MATT: At this point, Trinket finally comes down the rest of the staircase, staying back from the rest of the group, being stealthy.

MARY: Trinket, have you ever experienced anything like this? Do you know anything about this gooey shite?

MATT: Trinket is actually far behind. You'd have to back up to converse.

MARY: All right. Never mind.

MATT: You guys have quite a large group here, especially with Kima involved. You have quite the party. This is going to be very interesting to see how it–

SAM: We're all in the same tunnel now?

MATT: You guys are all making your way down the left tunnel, down the spiral staircase that Zahra found. So. You progress downward. You're looking for–?

LIAM: Traps. I'm looking for traps.

MATT: Just keeping an eye out?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm using the light from her thumb or whatever.

MARY: My staff.

LAURA: I want to look for any imperfections in the stairs that look like they could collapse at any time or they could be unsafe.

MATT: Both of you guys make perception checks with disadvantage.

MARISHA: Disadvantage?

MATT: Very low light.

LIAM: I don't know why I rolled both at the same time. 22 for me.

LAURA: 28 for me.

TALIESIN: That's a disadvantage roll.

MATT: Coursing down, what catches your eye is a little ways down the spiral staircase, there are a couple of small, dark, what look like minor objects that stand out against the rest of the stone structure.

LAURA: Can I crouch down and look at it and see what it is?

MATT: They appear to be a couple of dark feathers. They are beneath an actual layer of slick slime. They've been there for a while, but there are two feathers.

LAURA: Do they look like the owlbear feathers that I picked up earlier?

MATT: No, actually. Owlbear feathers are textured, with some layers of color, like a natural owl-type entity would have. These are jet black. You recognize it very quickly.

LAURA: Hey, Keyleth? Have you ever seen feathers like this?

MARISHA: Do they appear to be raven feathers?

MATT: They are raven feathers, yes.

LAURA: Why were they covered in goo?

MARISHA: Maybe this was some sort of offering to the Raven Queen? We might be getting close.

LAURA: Fuck. The Raven Queen. Right, that makes sense.

MARY: Well done.

LAURA: Thank you. You guys: ravens.

MARISHA: Ravens, yeah. Onward.

MATT: Pressing down the spiral staircase. It comes to another floor beneath the one you just hailed from. Go ahead and make another perception check, you guys going forward. It's the two of you at the front?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARY: Do you need more light? You all right?

LAURA: Oh, was I supposed to still be at disadvantage?

MATT: If she's behind you with a very faint bit of candlelight. You guys have low-light vision, so you can still make these checks right now, but it's at disadvantage because it's very, very limited.

LIAM: 22.

LAURA: 26.

WILL: The twins, baby.

MATT: All right. As you guys push forward, you reach out and stop Vax before he takes another step as you notice this pathway now, hatchbacking back in the direction you guys had come from on the lower floor. You can see these very, very thin, about two inch wide slits in the stone walls to each side of you.

LIAM: I'm going to take a closer look at those things. Do I need to roll anything if I see them now, because she's pointed them out?

MATT: She pointed them out.

LIAM: I'm going to try to disarm them. They look like things I've seen before. They look like traps. I'm going to try to disarm them.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

MARY: I extend my staff and I raise the light just a bit so you can see.

LAURA: Does it look like traps? You want to perceive them?

LIAM: What is disarm traps? Dexterity check?

MATT: This would be using your thieves' tools, and for this it would be– I will make this an intellect check, with the tools.

LIAM: An intellect check? Not the thieves' tools?

MATT: Thieves' tools, proficiency, plus your intelligence modifier.

LIAM: Plus the intelligence modifier?

MATT: Correct, because this is– you actually have not encountered this type of trap before, and you're trying to ascertain its nature without setting it off.

TRAVIS: I need popcorn for this.

LIAM: 23, then.

LAURA: Wow, you're really smart.

MATT: 23?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: As you step forward and begin to try, pulling your tools out to inspect the nature of these, looking into the dark paths on each side, there's an instantaneous movement, like a puff of air that comes out of each side. I need you to roll a dexterity save.

LIAM: Instinctually, I do evasion, if it's dexterity. I rolled a 12 plus– 22.

MATT: 22? All right, you (zoomf) just out of the way as these two pendulum blades (whoosh) right past you, missing you by about a half an inch. And then (whoosh) disappear and then swing back a second time, resetting on opposite sides of the hallway.

WILL: We all saw that, right?

MATT: You all saw that with a very (whoosh, whoosh).

LIAM: Scythes in the wall? My nose tickles right now. I'm going to attempt to take these out and– hold on.

LAURA: Can I perceive around and see if I see any switches or anything that would turn them off?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Thieves' tools to disarm, right?

MATT: Based on the check you previously made, these are a little more intricate and you're having a hard time finding a way to disarm them. This would be more of trying to find a mechanism in which to disarm them, which she is currently doing.

LAURA: This wouldn't be Underdark-y at all, would it?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Then I rolled a ten.

MATT: Well, this is an investigation check.

LIAM: Investigation? All right.

MATT: Ten? You have no idea of the nature of these.

LIAM: 13.

MATT: From this perspective, you have no inkling or idea as to what the mechanism is, where it's hidden, if there is a way to be able to disable the trigger. You have not encountered this before, and it is a little beyond your expertise at the moment.

LIAM: Grog, there's giant scythes in the wall or something and I can't figure out how to take it apart. Do you have a weapon that you could jam in this fucker? Like a throwaway weapon that you don't care about?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I've got three greatswords that are shit.

LIAM: Do you want to fucking fuck this knife hole with a sword?

SAM: On Vex's suggestion, I'm going to make an investigation check. 30.

MATT: So, while you guys are having this conversation. Scanlan, you step directly up to the very edge of where these blades swing from.

SAM: Kashaw. Watch this.

(laughter)

MARY: I think someone has a crush!

MATT: And you notice that, just glancing ever so slightly on the inside, there is some sort of a latch that is guarded by the blade's embedded portion. You realize as you put your hand forward, you trigger some sort of arcane sensor that is part of this that causes the blades to (whoosh) swing back, and as they swing past you, you hear a click on the inside of the groove that they swing from, and then as they swing a second time to reset, it gives a louder click sound, almost like it resets itself.

SAM: And how long a period from the blade swinging, to swinging back. Like a half a second?

MATT: It's about a second. It's (whoosh, whoosh).

SAM: So someone needs to reach their little hand in there and click it.

LAURA: Someone with little gnome hands, maybe.

WILL: Impress me.

SAM: Shit!

(laughter)

SAM: All right, watch this, y'alls. I'm going to try to do it.

TALIESIN: We get two tries each. It'll be great.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Scanlan, would you like a little bit of– enhancement?

SAM: Enhancement?

MARISHA: Natural enhancement, of course.

SAM: Ooh, I will never say no to enhancement.

MARISHA: I reach over and I enhance– what are you probably going to be using, dexterity?

SAM: I guess a little shortsword-y blade, I guess, to get in there? Or I have–

MARISHA: Is this going to be a sleight of hand check?

SAM: I have climbing gear, I have a cube. I have a flute. What can fit in there?

MATT: It's about two inches wide, the gap.

LAURA: So it's wide enough for your fingers.

MARISHA: I'm going to cast Enhance Ability and give him Cat's Grace for his dexterity checks.

MATT: Okay, so you have advantage on dexterity-based ability checks, currently.

SAM: Come on. I need these babies to play.

MARISHA: Don't lose your hand, Scanlan. We don't have Pike to regenerate it right now.

SAM: Do you have any tools I can borrow?

TALIESIN: I have a sword.

SAM: That shitty sword that you don't care about?

TALIESIN: It's a very nice sword that I care about quite a bit.

SAM: Could I shove a blade in there and jam it, maybe?

MATT: You can try to.

WILL: That's never a good answer. (laughs) You can try.

SAM: I'm going to use my Aberration Bane sword. Shortsword, or whatever it is. I have never used it.

MARY: (muffled) Don't use that sword. What are you thinking?

SAM: All right, I'm going to jam it in there.

MATT: Are you going to do it?

SAM: Sure.

MATT: All right, so you reach over and trigger the blades, pulling back immediately. (fwoof) They pass back. In that one moment, you go for it. Make a straight dexterity ability check, so roll a d20. You have advantage on it.

SAM: Okay, plus my dexterity, which is zero. So that's 13.

MARISHA: Dear god.

MATT: Once you understand the nature of this, it's not a very difficult thing to find. You bring the blade around in that brief moment, and as you bring your head into view to inspect the inside, you can see there is a slight stone protrusion from within that groove. You realize the blade probably isn't going to help at this point. You reach over and just (tkch).

SAM: With my finger?

MATT: You hit it with your fingers. As you do, you look quickly over to your right, and the blade is already pulling back towards the area where your head is, and then (creak, crunch) halts, and now the blades are just hanging.

(relieved noises)

MATT: Locked in place, as the arcane nature of this trap has held them aloft.

MARY: That was hot. That was very hot.

MARISHA: What was your first roll?

SAM: Thank you. Five.

MATT: (laughing) That would have been very bad.

SAM: Thank you for the advantage, Keyleth.

WILL: That was impressive. If it weren't for Vax, you'd be my man.

SAM: (laughing) Oh, Kashaw, you sweet-talker.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm in the middle of this.

SAM: Don't worry, everyone! I've cleared the way.

LAURA: I pat his little head as I walk through the blades. Not his cube. Just the top of his head.

(laughter)

MATT: So, as you guys continue forward down this long hallway, heading at a slight upward angle now, going against the tilt of this temple. Who's leading? All right. Pushing forward, it continues for about 60 feet. There was a tunnel split over to the right side, but that has entirely collapsed and is just filled with stone and it spills out partially into the hallway, but it's easy to step over and get past. Eventually–

LIAM: Are you saying it's not blocked, it's just some rubble and you can step over it?

MATT: Meaning the passage that you're walking down, it looks like there was a path that went to the right. That whole thing collapsed inward and is completely impassable.

LIAM: It's pooped into the passage.

MATT: It has spilled into the passage, but it's nothing you can't traverse over.

LIAM: Thank you.

WILL: Wow, you paint with words.

MATT: His vernacular is impressive.

LIAM: This is my profession.

(laughter)

WILL: “It pooped into the passage.”

MATT: Pushing even further forward, the passageway begins to curve gradually to the left over about 20 feet, and disappearing around a corner. As you continue to push forward here, you have moved beyond the light, unless Zahra, are you keeping the same essence of light here to help with his vision, you would have to travel up with him to be able to see around the corner as you move.

LIAM: Vex, could you tell Zahra to come up another 20 feet or so?

MARY: Coming. Coming now. So I go up and I stand next to him.

LAURA: Walk quietly, dear.

MATT: As you continue to move forward with him, the light cascading further down the hall, eventually the curvature comes to a halt and you can see before you a T-intersection of the tunnel. Across the way, the tunnel directly across from you comes to a halt. It just ends about 20 feet beyond this intersection. There is a path to the right and the left. Make a perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay. You can see, in a similar fashion to the tunnel you and Grog first discovered, the floor that is the center of this T-intersection has completely fallen out, as well. There are sections of stone that jut out from the edges, but it appears that this intersection for about a ten by ten foot area of the floor is just completely bottomed out.

LIAM: So I had a fucked-up passage on the right behind me. I've got a T ahead of me that goes in two directions, but there's a hole in the middle of the T.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: And there's nothing else?

MATT: Nothing else visible in the area.

WILL: How far are they sticking out from the stone walls?

MATT: You aren't with them.

WILL: Oh. That's a good point.

LIAM: I back up against Zahra, and I say to everyone else, because she's right next to me, we've got a T in the passage here, but there's a big fucking hole in the way, so we're going to need to use our neverending rope, perhaps, or some means of getting over this hole if we want to go forward.

TALIESIN: Or into the hole. Maybe it goes further down.

MARY: I could use my cloak and I could fly.

LAURA: You have a– wait.

MARY: I have a Cloak of the Bat. And I can use mine to investigate left or right, whichever side you'd like, and I can do a quick investigation and come back and see.

LAURA: You can fly?

MARY: I can. I can also cast flight on all of us, but that would– I think, at this point, it might be best to do a single investigation.

LIAM: How strong are you?

MARY: (laughing) I'm terribly not strong at all. No, but I can get in and get out.

LIAM: Can't carry any one person over? Maybe a gnome?

LAURA: I could maybe try to leap from the sides of the hole or something.

MATT: Where it meets this center area, it's only about a five-foot step over.

LAURA and LIAM: Oh.

MATT: To the other parts of the intersection.

LAURA: I could totally parkour that.

MATT: As long as you're not going directly across. If you're just going catty-corner, it would be a relatively easy acrobatics check. Barring you don't roll a one.

LIAM: Hold on, I've got this figured out. Hold on. Hold on, shush. Eenie, meany, miney, mo. Catch a tiger by the toe–

MARY: Do you want to go left, I'll go right?

LAURA: (whispering) I think we should go down.

LIAM: Eenie, meany, miney, mo. We go rightwards.

LAURA: Can we look down? Can we just look down?

MARY: Does my darkvision extend at all 60 feet down into the hole to see what's there?

MATT: All right, as you guys approach, Vax deftly attempts to leap over to the right side of the T-junction. Make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: That's a 30-something. 30–

LAURA: Three.

MATT: Perfect two-toed landing. Just (ta-ding). And you are immediately met with… a wall. It ends to the right. It's almost like across the way and immediately to the right both just end abruptly.

LIAM: And there's nothing here?

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: You can see there are symbols burned into what looks to be some sort of a bird head that ends in these streaks that are carved into the rock. Intricately, and done with a very careful hand.

LIAM: (groans) There's a bunch of bullshit on this wall and a raven's head, and I don't know what any of it fucking means.

MARY: I use my Cloak of the Bat to fly over and to read it.

SAM: Wait, you can read bullshit?

MARY: I can read bullshit. I have–

TALIESIN: Oh, I read bullshit.

MARY: Eyes of the Runekeeper.

MATT: Okay. It's not a language. It is a symbol. But you can make a religion check.

WILL: Are we up there with them now?

MATT: You guys have stepped up to the edge of the tunnel.

LAURA: That little ledge won't support– I mean, is it a long hallway that ends abruptly, or is it this much space?

MATT: It's maybe ten, 15 feet beyond the break.

MARY: 20.

MATT: 20. This being a tomb of a champion of the Raven Queen, looking at this, you gather this is the symbol of the Raven Queen.

MARY: That's the symbol of the Raven Queen.

SAM: Oh, yeah, that makes sense.

LAURA: I drop something down into– a rock that I find– and drop it down into the hole.

(long pause)

MATT: (sploosh)

LAURA: It's pretty deep, guys.

LIAM: What do I hear if I knock on the wall that we're looking at?

MATT: (quiet knocking) Solid stone.

LIAM: Doesn't feel hollow.

LAURA: Can I, since it's only five feet away on the left, can I look around and see if it looks like there's any similar sort of traps or anything down that hallway?

MATT: Okay, so you get around and glance around the edge? To the left tunnel, there is no wall. Instead, you're met with a large, ten foot tall, eight to ten foot wide double set of doors.

SAM: Doors.

LIAM: We should just leave.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to hop over to where the doors are.

LAURA: I hop over to the doors, too.

MATT: Okay. Both of you guys make acrobatics checks.

SAM: Jesus, don't fall. (high-pitched noise)

TALIESIN: 13. 14.

LAURA: 31.

MATT: Okay. Yeah, you guys make it across fine.

MARY: Can I just fly over and land?

MATT: Kima's getting impatient, and she joins you guys across that way. She's fine on her roll.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'll jump over towards the doors as well.

MATT: Okay. Acrobatics check.

WILL: Me, too.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah. I rolled an 18.

WILL: Yeah, 20.

SAM: 15.

TRAVIS: I rolled a one.

ALL: No!

MARISHA: What?

MATT: So, as all of you start leaping across into this small tunnel right before the doors, taking a moment to inspect it, the final member of the group right before Trinket, who rolled a two–

LAURA: You rolled for Trinket?

MATT: Yeah. Don't worry, Trinket's fine. The one was the killer.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my god.

MATT: So, you hear a (yelp) as suddenly, that slime-like mass that you've seen appearing throughout the stonework here has also gathered itself along the edge of this open crevasse in the hallway. Your foot hits it and within a moment, the stones beneath your feet are beneath your feet no more, and you find yourself about to plummet into this–

LAURA: Can I leap forward and try to grab him?

MATT: This is happening very quickly. I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw to see if you can manage to catch the edge.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17? Actually, no, because there is slime on this, I need you to make it a roll with disadvantage.

MARISHA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: 11?

MATT: 11. You (grunts) just catch yourself on the edge. Your fingers are (shh) sliding off the edge right now. You're barely holding on.

MARISHA: I turn and I cast Grasping Vine from up here and try and yank him back up.

LAURA: Trinket turns and puts his claws into Grog's hand.

LIAM: Smart bear.

MATT: Okay. So in a very Scar in The Lion King moment (whoosh)–

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (yells) Just drop me!

MATT: You do take four points of slashing damage from the claws that dig into your hands as Trinket is holding onto you there. Then a vine streaks out from the stonework, wraps around you, and pulls you up out of Trinket's grasp, slamming into the ceiling and now holding you aloft before it drops you, plopping right into the stonework between the rest of the party.

MARISHA: Good to join us, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no big deal.

LAURA: Good to know you can jump at all.

MARY: Yes, how'd that work for you?

TRAVIS: Listen, an example of what not to do.

LAURA: Are your hands okay?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Should we proceed? What is all this dilly-dally?

LAURA: Are the doors locked?

MATT: You go ahead and push on the door?

LIAM: Wait! What are you doing over there?

LAURA: Are there traps on the door? I check for traps.

LIAM: Wait up– okay, go for it.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Do me proud!

LAURA: 16.

MATT: Okay. Looking over it, there is what looks to be a locking mechanism on it, but it is not currently locked.

LIAM: Well, that was lucky.

TALIESIN: Is it?

LAURA: (door squeaking sound) I push?

MATT: You push? (thump) It doesn't budge. You have to put some of your weight behind it to get it to shift at all, and it (creak) opens up slightly into a pitch-black room ahead of you.

LAURA: Oh good, more darkness.

MARY: I peek in and, using my darkvision, see what I can see for 60 feet.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

LIAM: I'm going to catch up with the ladies and acrobatics over to them.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: 20– 33, excuse me.

MATT: Yeah. Yeah, you (impact). Around the edge–

MARY: Balls– ten.

MATT: Ten? It's hard to make out much detail in the room; you can see what appears– the room just lays out before you. It seems to open up slightly, and then even further partway in. It ends on the opposite side with curved corners. You can see what appears to be four pillars in the room that meet the floor to the ceiling, the ceiling which is about 25 feet tall. Most of the tunnels you've passed through here are about 15 to 20: this is about 25 feet tall at its full height. But these pillars reach to the ceiling, and there are steps across the way, what appears to be a raised platform. That's the most detail you can make out of it at this distance– you'd have to get close.

MARY: Can't see much. It's a taller ceiling, there seems to be a platform in the middle and some pillars.

LAURA: Like a platform like a tomb?

MARY: No, I can't see, really.

MARISHA: Like an altar?

MARY: It's a slightly raised platform, that's– Grog, can you help? Can you do anything, can you see any further than me?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I come over, and– 'cause I have 60 feet of darkvision. Can I try?

MATT: Yeah, make a Perception check.

TRAVIS: Nah, I can't see shit.

SAM: All right, I'll look. I've also got darkvision, so– 12.

MATT: All right, you all come to the same conclusion– some sort of raised platform across the way.

MARY: Right, it's sort of a platform, but you can't really tell what it is.

SAM: Sort of curved to the back– I could probably sketch it for you.

LAURA: Can I stealth? I want to stealth. And perceive– I'm going to, like, step in.

SAM: Oh, let's just go in there.

LIAM: Wait a second, hold on a second, this is the only thing we can do.

LAURA: 20.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: Okay, so you guys stealth into the room. You sneak in, and you can see now, this slime-type substance that you've seen throughout–

LAURA: Oh! 30, because of Pass without a Trace, which is still on us.

LIAM: 30, 35.

MATT: All right– it seems to coat most of the floor and walls of this interior. You guys step inside, and with what little bit of light you have, you see a couple shapes shift across the way, behind the platform.

MARY: That's not good.

LIAM: (whispers) All right, everybody, get ready to play.

TRAVIS: What? Play?

LAURA: (whispers) There's definitely creatures in here. I don't know if they're hostile.

LIAM: I reach down– are there any rocks or pebbles or anything on the ground?

MATT: You find a couple of small pebbles.

LAURA: (whispers) Can I just shoot an arrow?

LIAM: I take a pebble, I throw it all the way towards the platform.

TRAVIS: Don't waste an arrow.

MATT: Okay. (plop, plop, plop) As you listen, you hear a couple of hushed voices (Undercommon). Do either of you speak Undercommon?

LAURA: I do.

MATT: You do.

MARY: They're jawas.

ALL: Ooh!

MARISHA: Secrets, secrets, secrets.

SAM: Check out the Geek and Sundry store for fantastic Critical Role-themed products and merchandise! There are shirts and posters for sale!

LAURA: (gasps) Ohh! I forgot! Wait! (gasps) Shh!

LIAM: What's the matter? (whispers) What's the matter?

LAURA: (whispers) They know we're here. Obviously, you threw a fucking rock. They want to fight us– whatever it is they're protecting– this champion's–

SAM: They want to bite us?

TRAVIS: I don't know if anyone can hear you when you're whispering.

LAURA: You want me to just yell it out?

WILL: Well, if they know we're here–

LAURA: Cool. Hey, there's people on the other fucking side, and they're going to attack us when we walk in here. They're saying to defend his fucking tomb.

SAM and WILL: Oh.

WILL: Right place.

MARY: So they've been in the dark for a long time, is that right? I'm going to cast some light as bright as I possibly can.

LAURA: I'm stealthing to the side.

LIAM: Stealthing to the side.

WILL: Kashaw jumps up with Zahra; they cast Light at the same time.

MATT: Light spell is about as powerful as decent torchlight, it doesn't become crazy, you know, Gandalf-Bridge-of-Khazad-Dum-style.

WILL: (Gandalf voice) You shall not pass!

MATT: Yeah. But it does light up the room, and from what you can see now, immediately across the way, atop this platform there is what looks to be another stone, raised platform or what could be considered as some sort of a tomb or stone coffin that lays atop these stairs on this upper platform. There is another humanoid figure that stands on top, that turns around at the light and you can see the light giving that weird, ominous animal eye-glow whenever the light catches it at an awkward angle, the fish face snarling at you, robes drenched in various liquid and mucus-y fluid swish around for a minute as it turns to you, this fish humanoid clutching this big staff. You can see now three other of these fish-like entities all clamor up from the side, holding onto these spears and these weird buckler-type shields on the side of their arms, and they just (loud Undercommon).

LAURA and MARY: What'd he say?

LAURA: I want to get up and meet him at a–

SAM: You can also make donations to our charities of choice– Find links to those on Geek and Sundry.

LAURA: I use my earring and I whisper, they're calling to their master! Something big. I stay stealthed.

MATT: All right. The rest of you–

MARISHA: Oh, shit–

LIAM: Stealth, stealth, stealth, stealth, stealth!

MATT: Right, we have two of you have stealthed inside, and you've rolled stealth for this?

LAURA: Rolled stealth?

MARY: And we still all have Pass without a Trace on us?

LAURA: Yeah, everybody still has Pass Without a Trace.

LIAM: Is this new stealth?

MATT: It doesn't matter, there's two big light sources in the front of the door. This is going to be an initiative roll, folks.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

WILL: Look, there's the broken floor!

MARY: Oh, it's so pretty! There are the pillars!

SAM: Oh, wow, the detail!

MATT: Thank you, Dwarven Forge.

LIAM: Who was this made by?

MATT: Dwarven Forge, folks.

MARY and LIAM: Dwarven Forge.

TALIESIN: That's awesome.

MATT: All right, so. This door here has been opened for the moment. The folks that were still back in this tunnel here– We have Zahra and Kash that walked in and created the light, Trinket is still back here at this point– Scanlan, you're at the edge of the door, Percy– And we have Kima in the back there, holding up the range. Across the way we have the one robed individual and these other frog-type creatures that have stepped out from behind here. All righty. So. Let's go ahead and get some initiative rolls, folks.

LAURA: Was I supposed to roll stealth at all on that?

MATT: Yeah, if you rolled–

LAURA: 35.

MATT: 35.

WILL: Ew. Do you add it to anything?

TALIESIN: Yeah, you have an initiative number.

LIAM: 29 for something.

SAM: Ooh!

MATT: All right, so. 25 to 20.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21. All right.

MATT: 20 to 15?

WILL: 19.

LIAM: 19.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: Oh, 17. And 17.

SAM: 17 for Scanlan.

MATT: So Grog is 17, Scanlan is 17.

LIAM: 19 for Vax.

MATT: Yes, 19 for Vax.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: What'd you roll, five?

LAURA: Uh huh– nine, ten–

MATT: Okay, so that's15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: Percy. Ten to five?

MARY: (singing along with battle music) Fiiiiive. (higher) Fiiiiiiiiive!

MARISHA: Just me and Grog.

MATT: All right. Keyleth, what'd you get?

MARISHA: Four.

MATT: Four.

MARISHA: Four, yeah! Lucky number four.

MATT: Oh, man. Kima rolled really bad, too.

MARY: Kima, you're very quiet.

MATT: You have nine people in your traveling group, plus a bear. Trying not to over-complicate this. You mass-traveling assholes.

LIAM: She's very focused and studying our styles.

MATT: Exactly. All right. All right, so, Vex, you have the top of the round.

LAURA: Awesome. I'm going to– ooh! Is this Sneak Attack, because I'm stealthed?

MATT: Technically you would Sneak Attack if you hit somebody who has not– you don't know if they've seen you or not.

LAURA: Oh, okay. I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on the guy in the middle, 'cause everything within ten feet is hit. Oh, you know what? I was using those little blocks as feet marks– is that?

MATT: Yeah, I mean, these are five feet each, so it would get those two there if you were to do it.

SAM: Is there light? Oh, they lit torches, right?

LAURA: It wouldn't get the two guys down–

MATT: It would get these two there; this guy is actually beyond the ten-foot radius if you were to hit the middle guy.

LAURA: Okay. So let's do the middle guy and– yeah.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Aw man, which one, which one?

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Let's do this– That's 30? 30.

MATT: 30 hits–

LAURA: No, 28.

MATT: Pass without a Trace now drops, by the way. All right, so go ahead and roll damage against that guy.

LAURA: Lightning Arrow is 4d8 lightning damage.

MATT: Correct. So go ahead and roll that for the main guy.

LAURA: Okay. 27 plus sneak attack?

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: 29 points of damage. Fantastic, and then it is 2d8 against the other two if they do not make their dexterity saving throw. So what's the DC on the spell? Well, that's a natural 20–

LAURA: 15.

MATT: One of them succeeds, one of them fails.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: So roll 2d8.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: This one takes 13 damage, the other takes six. Okay. So as you step out of the shadows, pull back your arrow and release this bolt of blue lightning energy, it fires across, slams into this robed fish-person who shrieks out in pain. The bolts then scatter off and shoot into two of the nearby ones. One of them manages to pull right behind the pillar and manage to avoid most of the impact. The one over here, however, takes the brunt of it and doubles over in pain, almost falling onto its knees. They start croaking back to each other.

LAURA: I'm going to move–

MATT: Do you wish to move yourself or Trinket?

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to move behind that wall there.

MATT: Right here?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. And Trinket, you want to move–

LAURA: Trinket is going to–

MATT: Don't forget you have your pointers, guys.

LAURA: Move– I don't know where that is– move behind the pillar. Can he get there?

MATT: His movement speed is 40?

LAURA: Maybe? Yes.

MATT: You get there, yeah.

LAURA: Yeah. Cool.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: I dunno if this laser pointer's going to work, since there's now a wall in the way. I'm going to go up the side– I'm going to hit my heel against the other heel–

TRAVIS: I love that you're pointing it at the TV.

LIAM: Yeah, that's great.

(laughter)

LIAM: I'm going to go right to that window right there.

MATT: Right here?

LIAM: Yeah. And you tell me if it's surprise, I don't know, but I'm going before Fish Guy up on the dais. I can't make it work over these walls. I'm going to chuck three daggers at Fish Guy up here on the dais. Through the window.

MATT: It's not a surprise because they were aware that there was an aggressive action coming in. But you still–

LIAM: But because I go first I get advantage on all attacks.

MATT: Correct, so. So it's three against this guy?

LIAM: Against guy on the dais, yeah. Is 28?

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Second one is 14, and the third one is 27.

MATT: All three hit.

LIAM: All three hit, so the first one we'll do a sneak attack on, and here we go.

LAURA: No sneak attack.

LIAM: Oh, sorry. Advantage. Thank you. 11 for the first, ten for the second, and eight for the third.

MATT: This includes sneak attack damage?

LAURA: I thought you said it didn't get sneak attack–

MATT: You have advantage, no no no– You don't have surprise.

LIAM: Right, but because I have advantage, I automatically– So yes! Sneak attack on the first– The first one was–

MATT: It was ten plus whatever the dice roll is.

LIAM: I rolled a full four, so that's four plus eight plus– That's 13, 19, 24, 28, 32, 34–

LAURA: That's better.

LIAM: That's the dice, 34, so 68 plus seven is 75.

MATT: 68?

LIAM: You double the dice, yeah?

MATT: If it's a surprise, you– okay.

LIAM: Sneak Attack, sorry, I always get this fucking shit confused. Sorry. So half of that is, so 34 plus seven is 41.

MATT: 41 points of damage.

LIAM: Always get it confused. Every fucking time.

MATT: It's all good. So, after the energy from the arrow is still dissipating from the blast, you've already rushed behind through the small space in the wall and thrown all three daggers, all sinking into the body of the robed frog creature, who doubles over from pain, slamming into the top of the stone sarcophagus. In doing so, its hand hits it and a bunch of black feathers scatter off the top and come to rest on the ground at the bottom of the raised platform. Does that end your turn?

LIAM: I'd like to use the rest of my movement just to sink down with my back against the wall, out of the way of the window.

MATT: Okay, so that should be there. All right, that ends your turn. Kashaw.

WILL: Okay. How far away are they?

MATT: They're about 45-ish, 40 to 45 feet.

LIAM: 50 from whoever's in the lead.

WILL: I think I'm going to do a– how close are the three together? Or, there's four, right?

MATT: There's four of them, yeah.

WILL: So those– how close are the three to the top there, I don't have a laser pointer.

MATT: Here? I mean they're all within ten feet of each other. Ten to 15 feet.

WILL: I think I am going to do a 5th-level Flame Strike.

SAM: Whoa.

WILL: On– if they're within ten feet, I can hit all three of those guys right there.

MATT: All right, Dexterity saves: fail, fail and fail. Go ahead and roll some damage.

WILL: So it's a 20, right?

MATT: No, you already hit with them, sorry– I take that back. You just do straight damage to them, and they don't get any reduction in that because they missed their saves, so you just roll the dice and that's how much damage they take.

WILL: And is it a 20?

MATT: No, it's 4d6 fire damage and 4d6 radiant damage, so 8d6 total.

SAM: You got it.

WILL: Ah, come on.

MARISHA: Whoa, that's good!

WILL: Okay, six, ten, 14, 16, 19, 23, 24.

MATT: Okay. So.

WILL: Thank you.

MATT: Are you going to stay where you are or are you moving in?

WILL: No, I'd like to then move in, closer to Trinket.

MATT: Okay. So as you're moving by, you grab onto your holy symbol, look over and concentrate. Your eyes go dark black, and one of the feathers that drifted off the top of the platform comes to rest on the ground between the three of them. As the feather hits the ground it creates this opening of blackness behind them as they look down. All of a sudden the darkness turns to bright, searing light as fire and divine energy just slams up from the ground beneath them into the ceiling, and you just hear these three simultaneous screeches. As the flames die down, there is nothing left where they were standing.

(cheering)

MARY: Yes, my brother!

MATT: All right. And that ends your turn. He doesn't have a turn anymore. At this point in time–

WILL: I'm sensing something big is on the way

SAM: Vax! Did you see that?

LIAM: I'm under cover, I'm pressed to a wall. I saw a flash of something.

SAM: Amazing! Oh, sorry, I won't draw attention to it.

MATT: There is this echoing mutter, this almost burbling that seems to rise up behind Kima and Percy at this point.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: You glance over your shoulder into the darkness below the collapsed tunnel, and what little bit of light you see coming through, you see something fleshy rise up from underneath. It's glistening in places and immediately a cold shudder crawls down your back as you see a series of appendages release, each with a gleaming eye at the end of each one.

LAURA: (gasps) No.

MATT: As one giant eye rises up, it–

ALL: No!

(yelling)

MARISHA: Son of a bitch!

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck.

TALIESIN: No!

MARISHA: We weren't prepared!

TALIESIN: Not cool.

TRAVIS: Happy anniversary, you dicks.

(laughter)

LAURA: (muffled) Oh my god!

MATT: As it rises up and Kima looks over the shoulder– “Shit!” It's going to be a beam at Kima, a beam at you Percy, and a beam at Grog since you're visible.

WILL: (laughs) Shit just got real! And we're all just, we're stuck in the room now.

MATT: Against Percy, I need you to make a dexterity save.

LIAM: Wake up, everybody!

TRAVIS: What's going against him right now?

LAURA: You!

TALIESIN: That's 19.

MATT: A 19, okay. Great. A dull green beam arcs past, and you manage to just duck out of the way– Slams into the stone wall next to you, of which that stone wall now just turns to dust. Disintegrated rock behind you. The one against Kima, see if she makes her save here– No, she fails. This beam hits Kima square in the chest, and as it does she doesn't seem to have any physical reaction but she begins to back up instinctually from it. You can see her jaw agape, her eyes wide open, she looks like she is filled with the dread of the ages. And the third beam going towards Grog, have to reroll that, need you to make a dexterity save, Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm not raging or anything. 19.

MATT: 19, great. A strangely quicksilver-like beam strikes you center in the chest. It hits you and you feel the muscles around your chest begin to seize up and crack into dust like the actual flesh is turning to a slightly hardened stone but you flex and resist the effect, the petrification not beginning to take hold within your body.

TRAVIS: Petrification–

LAURA: I don't remember all the things, I don't remember all the things! Oh no!

MARISHA: It's everything– Yeah, they've got fear, disintegration–

TALIESIN: It is the burrito supreme of creatures. It comes with everything!

WILL: And fries and a coke!

TALIESIN: There's a fuck-you beam too, there's like literally a fuck-you beam

WILL: Oh my god, you're going into a special section of your book. That's never good.

MARISHA: I've got a list, I've got a fiends book.

WILL: Oh my god, of course you do.

LIAM: Ah, he's moving!

MATT: So as it turns up, its beam striking you, after all the beams hit, it turns around and (incomprehensible growling). Speaking in a language you don't understand unless one of you speaks Deep Speech.

SAM: Deep Speech? I speak Common!

WILL: Yeah, is that the same as Giant?

SAM: And Gnomish!

TRAVIS: Is that above us or is that?

MATT: He's right above you, he's just hovering right over your heads. And it stops right above you, Grog. That ends its turn.

TRAVIS: Don't you fucking shoot that shit at me! And I go into a frenzied rage! And I will– I'm going to just attack it regular, with Craven Edge. Just on this one, 'cause I don't know what hits yet.

MATT: You get two attacks.

TRAVIS: Yep. Terrible. 12.

MATT: 12. You go to swing and you miss entirely.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: You swing with a 17 and once again, just in your fury and anger in it flying overhead and the little bit of intensity of its reveal, you just can't seem to find purchase on its body.

TRAVIS: 17 does not hit, FYI.

LAURA: Got it, got it, got it.

MATT: All right, Grog, you want to move or you going to stay where you are?

TRAVIS: I am going to move like the sweet dewdrop that I am, and haul ass behind– I've got a little pointer. I'm going to move behind that column.

MATT: Okay, you can get there fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Just put it between me and him. That'll end my turn.

MATT: Okay. As you rush past, it's going to go ahead and use a reaction to make a bite attack at you as you speed beneath it. Oh, that is a 24 to hit.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: You take 14 points of piercing damage, reduced to seven. As its teeth just reach out and bite towards you, streaking across your shoulder as you push out of the pain, continuing forward. All right, that ends Grog's turn, Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Jesus. Can it see me? I'm right under it.

MATT: It doesn't seem to notice you at the moment, no.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: It seems to be intent, looking towards Zahra and Kashaw at the moment, as they are immediately in front of it.

SAM: I'm going to attempt to use my Wand of Fire– oh no, no, that's a bad idea. I'm going to use my Lightning Bolt! Lightning Bolt on it. Lightning Bolt. 'Cause I'm right under it, right? So it'll just go straight up.

MATT: You are, correct. Ah, it fails its save. That's an 11.

SAM: Okay. So I can roll for something?

MATT: Yeah, go ahead and roll 8d6 points of lightning damage against it, because you're doing it at a level three?

SAM: Yes, please.

MATT: So yeah, so 8d6 lightning damage.

TALIESIN: That's really good.

SAM: 30!

MATT: 30 points of damage. Nice! So as you release this bolt of energy, you guys see this flash of blue light in the distance as the bolt slams up into the creature from underneath. All its eyes whip around in your direction for a second, before looking around all the areas around it. It's still focused intently in your guys' direction. Do you wish to move or do you want to stay where you are?

SAM: Well, I assume it sees me now, but I'll slowly back away.

MATT: Okay, Percy's in your way so you have to back over in this direction.

SAM: Does it kill me while I move?

MATT: No, it's already made its reaction.

SAM: And then I will turn to Zahra and I will sing to her to inspire her. I'll sing: (sings) Zahra, a rainbow! Zahra, a sunrise! Zahra the moon to wear! That's not good enough, no, not good enough, not for Zahra!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, you take a d10 inspiration die, so keep that on hand.

LIAM: I always like the bail out at the end.

MATT: It's the best. All right, that ends your turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Oh boy! First thing I'm going to do– So it took its reaction, so does that mean if I run around it, it can't take an attack of opportunity on me or is–

MATT: Correct, yes. If you wanted to move past it, yes, you could.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and run past it, full speed, yeah.

MATT: There you go, that's about as far as you can get in a direct line.

TALIESIN: Okay, that will do. I'm going to– What's the smart play here?

MATT: Keep it going, Percy, what are you going to do?

TALIESIN: Yeah, sorry, I'm going to cast Hex on the little fish creature. I know that sounds odd, but that's what I'm doing.

MATT: Actually, Lewis, can you hand me that little template there? The post. To the left of it.

(offscreen clatter)

SAM: That worked.

(laughter)

MATT: So, Percy, as you go to cast the spell, you release the incantation. Nothing happens.

TALIESIN: That's fine. I'm going to take a trick shot at the beholder.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to shoot for the head, that tends to go well. Oh, thank god. No, that's going to miss. That's a 15.

MATT: 15. Unfortunately, in your sudden fear of realizing the spell not happening, you go to fire and it just ricochets off the stone.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to take another shot. Same thing. Headshot.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's a little better. 20

MATT: 20 does hit.

TALIESIN: 20 hits, so that's– God damn it, I'm rolling really poorly. That's eight points of piercing damage. Plus he has to make a constitution save.

MATT: Okay, or?

TALIESIN: Or, if he missed his constitution save, that means he's disadvantage on attacks until the end of his turn.

MATT: Good to know. The rays don't make attacks so the only thing that it would affect is his bite.

TALIESIN: Okay. That's–

LAURA: Good to know.

MATT: It just looks at you and the ray hits you and it's your attempt to try to get out of the way. That's how it works.

TALIESIN: Good fucking god! Then just, I suppose, with my last attack I'm going to shoot that fish person, just 'cause we should really clear the board.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: That's better! 20– 31.

MATT: 31, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: (blows raspberry) Eight.

MATT: Eight damage? So as you turn around the third shot fires, it slams into the fish creature. You see, like, blowing part of its neck out, it (choking grunt). It's pretty heavily hurt, but still standing. It looks to be almost like, with the pain it's withstanding as it's looking up at this, it's reverent and raising its spear toward the Beholder, like (Undercommon chanting).

LIAM: Four more years!

(laughter)

MATT: All right, that's Percy. It is now that creature's turn.

WILL: We're going to build a fish cage. Vasselheim's going to pay for it.

LIAM: It's going to be 'uge.

MARY: 'Uge. Tiny hands, 'uge.

MATT: All right, six. It's going to move up to you after you shot it. Percy, it's going to make an attack with its spear on you with both hands. It pulls up and goes towards you, its big old fish mouth snapping. Oh! That's going to be a 21?

TALIESIN: I'm going to take the hit.

MATT: Okay. As it jams the spear into your side, it hits your shoulder and just streaks off, tearing into the flesh a little bit, but it's not too bad. You end up taking– okay, that's nine points of piercing damage. All right! That ends its turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay, first things first, I'm going to–

MATT: Actually, sorry. Before the end of your turn, out of frustration at being shot, it's going to use one of its action points to shoot– I'm sorry, one of its legendary actions to shoot another eye ray at random, at the end of Percy's turn.

MARISHA: Where's that laser pointer?

TALIESIN: It's going to shoot at me, isn't it?

MATT: Yes, it is going to shoot at you, because you were the one that just shot at it. No, it's not going to shoot you, because you are in its– it would absolve its ray, so it's not going to shoot you, it's going to fire behind it, instead, at Kima. Okay.

MARISHA: What? Come on–

MATT: Kima's strength save… Natural two. So that's going to be the telekinetic ray, it's going to move it 30 feet in any direction. It's going to lift Kima above this hole and just drop her. Kima, unable to do anything at this point, struck with fear from the previous ray and is nowhere near the edge, is just thrown off and plummets into the darkness below, where the beholder originally emerged. You just hear her scream (screams) as the echo continues past. You don't even hear an impact. That sucked.

MARY: Oh my god.

MATT: Now it's your turn, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Oh my god– do I still have enough time to do a bonus reaction to try and save her with a Grasping Vine, or is she gone?

MATT: I will say go ahead and roll a dexterity check. Just a straight dexterity check.

MARISHA: (groans) Straight dexterity?

MATT: As you look over–

MARISHA: I rolled a natural two.

MATT: –before you have an opportunity to get that thought in your head, she vanishes into the darkness.

SAM: (laughing nervously) Oh shit, Kima just died.

WILL: (laughing) Why are you laughing!? Holy shit!

TALIESIN: She may not be dead. She may just be really, really wet and broken.

MARY: She landed in the slime.

SAM: Yeah! Yeah, maybe it's soft and cushy!

MATT: What are you doing, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I'm going to try and move behind him so– I'm not, like, in his eye cone, am I?

MATT: Right now you're not, no. So you can move–

MARISHA: No no, behind him a bit– I'm going to cast Blight at fifth level on him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Oh, god. I'm so afraid. So it's going to do 9d8 damage– anyone give me some d8s? d8 me.

MATT: Okay, constitution saving throw–

MARISHA: Fail it, motherfucker.

MATT: 11, so yeah. Full damage.

MARISHA: Yeah! All right, okay. Eight, ten, 15, 17. So, four more. These were at 17– That could've been better. What'd I say, 17? Plus another seven, this is 33 damage.

MATT: 33 damage. Nice. So as you look up, you channel your spell energy into the essence of withering life force and you can see a portion of its back, the slime dripping from its form, the flesh shrinks up and shrivels, and it shrieks out. Some of the eyestalks quiver and look in the direction of where you are, and some glance down and see you.

MARISHA: So we established that this moss-slime isn't natural, it's not like a plant.

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: And now I'm going to use my bonus action to go into earth elemental form.

MATT: Return to form.

MARISHA: Yes. This worked last time.

MARY: What does that mean, Keyleth?

TRAVIS: She turns into a giant rock monster.

MATT: That ends your turn. At the end of your turn it's going to use another legendary action to fire another ray. This one is going to be– this is going to be at Scanlan, as it's the one that's clear and behind it. It sees you transform into earth elemental form–

MARISHA: Do I still have enough movement to where I can, like, go underground? Can I do that, or no?

MATT: You can travel into earth. You cannot travel into, like, solid stone, carved stone.

MARISHA: Is there any earth around?

MATT: Not immediately visible. Actually, there is, in the wall that it disintegrated when it tried to shoot Percy, so yeah, right up in here there would be.

MARISHA: Can I, like, Homer Simpson (slurps) into the wall?

MATT: Okay. (slurps) You vanish into the wall there. But you can only emerge from that same spot.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: It's the only exposed earth in the vicinity. But you are in the wall. Okay! It's going– and since you've disappeared, it goes ahead and takes the ray shot at Scanlan. Scanlan, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Is this a spell?

MATT: No, this is not a spell.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words on it?

MATT: It is not an actual attack–

SAM: Oh, it just happens.

MATT: But you can use Cutting Words to reduce the damage if you want to.

SAM: Well, then, I'll just make my what, dexterity sa–

MATT: Your dexterity save, yes.

SAM: Hmm, yeah, great. Five?

MATT: Five.

MARISHA: To be fair, I think I still have your Enhance Ability up–

MATT: Ability checks. Ability checks, not saving throws. So you can see one eyestalk that was looking for Keyleth hones in on you and this eye has no iris, just a deep, thick, black pupil. And a streaking beam, it sounds like a shrieking voice, just (shrieks) streaks out and slams into you, this black, solid beam. You take 55 points of necrotic damage.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my god.

SAM: Yeah. Sure, sure, yeah. Yeah.

TALIESIN: I hate beholders so much.

MATT: That ends Keyleth's turn. Kima's turn.

LAURA: Is she unconscious or is she awake?

MATT: We're going to find out.

TALIESIN: She's possibly still falling, it could be a really deep hole.

WILL: She's like, 'Damn, this is taking forever.'

MATT: Does not make the acrobatics check–

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: Look at this guy, he's cold as the universe.

TALIESIN: Doing so much math.

MATT: Okay. You hear a distant echo of a slam of impact that seems like the breaking of water, along with the hitting of stone. You hear this distant, echoing (groans) “Ouch.”

LAURA: Okay, she's alive.

SAM: Wait, we hear her say something, I mean, she's not underwater drowning or anything.

MATT: Correct. The hit of water and stone sounds like wherever she landed, it was shallow enough to impact when she landed. But not enough for her to, like, sink or anywhere. But she is, right now, effectively out of this fight, ending her turn. Zahra, you're up.

MARY: All right, if I move to this tiny little alcove, right there. Can it see me?

MATT: You're not within its main eye, but it can see everything around it.

MARY: Then I'm going to Hex it? No, no, I'm going to use Witch Bolt.

MATT: All right. What level?

MARY: I'm a warlock, what level can I use it at?

MATT: Well, what level would it be? It would be your max level as a warlock.

MARY: I don't know, I'm sorry–

LAURA: Six. Seven.

MARY: Six. Seven was last week, and that doesn't count anymore!

WILL: No. You can't finger it to death!

MARY: I can't finger it to death and I want– wait, what?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow.

MARY: Which is a plus 11 attack bonus, and then 5d12 plus two.

MATT: So you, yeah, correct. Well, technically it would be 6d12 if you're doing it at a sixth level.

MARY: Oh, 6d12.

MATT: Go ahead and roll to see if you hit first. You have to roll to– It'd be a d20, and add your ranged spell bonus.

MARY: What is my ranged spell attack bonus? Do you know that?

LAURA: Your ranged attack bonus? 11.

MARY: 11– and what is that? I think it's a nine. 20.

MATT: Okay, so you rolled a 20 total? That hits. Go ahead and roll 6d12 lightning damage.

LAURA: 6d12!? Holy crap, girl!

MARISHA: That's hot.

WILL: God, I can't get 'fingered to death' outta my head.

MARY: 24. Close. Better than the other ones.

MATT: 24?

MARY: 24 plus two.

MATT: Okay. So 26. All right, so the lightning blasts into its side. One of the nearest stalks just looks over at you to acknowledge the impact, and you just hear a slight snarl as the eye looks out of the corner towards you. Is that going to end your turn?

MARY: Mm-hmm.

MATT: Brings us to the top. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. Am I– can it see me in its eye? Would I be in its thingy?

MATT: It is looking in your direction.

LAURA: I'm going to move stealthily along the wall so I can maybe be out of that thing. Can I be?

MATT: You don't know. We'll find out when you stop. To there? You would still be in the eye range.

LAURA: Fuckin' shit bitch.

LIAM: Only she can get away with that. None of the rest of us can.

LAURA: Am I hiding? Am I still hidden?

MATT: No, because you revealed yourself in the attack you did a little while ago. I mean, you can duck partially. If you want to use an action to try and hide you can do that.

LAURA: No, I don't want to do that, I just want to make my motion hide behind a pillar, maybe.

SAM: Oh, wait, remember, Laura, you can move a little bit faster because you have 30 gold less than you did earlier.

(laughter)

WILL: But she's weighed down by the book!

LAURA: Yeah, I appreciate it. My pouches are still pretty heavy. I'm going to hold my action until he's looking away from me. And I want to move Trinket behind the wall.

MATT: So Trinket moves behind the wall there, looking over at you, you can see noticeable fear in Trinket's face. All right, at the end of your turn it's going to use its third legendary action. It's going to take another eye roll– another eye beam. This one is going to fire at Grog.

(groaning)

MATT: Actually, no, not Grog. It can still see the pillar– no, Grog, because you're one of the few, like, big individuals in its front way that's not in its ray.

TRAVIS: Does the pillar grant me any cover at all?

MATT: Nope! We'll see what it does, though. All right, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: 19?

MATT: 19.

TRAVIS: 20, actually. 11 plus nine is 20.

MATT: All right, cool. So, as a yellowish beam streaks across and slams into your back, you feel your back muscles tense up and lock up and you resist the effect once again. You just have that hardy constitution of a goliath who seems to be resisting every one of these beams that slams into you for the time being. Vax, it's your turn.

LIAM: I'm going to use Cunning Action to hide, and then I'm going to run along the back wall to the pillar by– across from Vex, at the back of the chamber. And if counting is right, I'm 60 feet away from the beholder.

MATT: You'd be just within 60 feet.

LIAM: Just within, right. That's what I thought, and I'm going to throw three daggers at his fuckin' eyeball.

MATT: Go for it. You used your bonus action to hide, so you get two attacks.

LIAM: Two attacks? But I got the hasted boots on. I clicked the heels.

MATT: Right. But you only have one attack with your main action.

LIAM: Oh, right! Thanks. And do I have advantage– no one's near him, right?

MATT: You have to roll a stealth check to see if he sees you or not.

LIAM: All right. Use my last Luck. No, that's okay because I'm me, so that is 25.

MATT: 25, okay. So go ahead and roll your attacks.

LIAM: All right, so the first attack was an eight– 18.

MATT: 18 hits. And you do have advantage on these because he does not see you.

LIAM: Okay. So the first attack was 18 plus– sorry, it was 30–

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: And the second attack was 28.

MATT: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage, and sneak attack on the first hit because he did not see where you were. Surprisingly, being an entity covered in eyes.

LIAM: One plus two, five, ten, 11, 15, 16, 17, 20 for the first. No, 27.

MATT: Seven, yeah, all right, okay.

LIAM: And then the second attack is– ten.

MATT: Got it. 37. Rushing up behind the side, ducking into the shadows, you go around the pillar and– watch one dagger spin around and watch a second one. Both of them sinking into him. Adjusts in place angrily from the pain and impact, but– yeah.

LIAM: I also make a little, like, raspberry noise at the end and go (pffbt).

MATT: Cool. That's what breaks your stealth. Not the attacks, strangely. Okay. That ends your turn. Kashaw, you're up.

WILL: I know, but if he's looking right at me– I mean, he can see me, essentially, looking right at me, correct?

MATT: Everything else except for you and Percy are directly out of the main eye, but his eyestalks look all over the entire room and they keep shifting and taking in the awareness of the surroundings. But the big eye is just staring right at you intently.

WILL: Can I get out of the direct– well, can you cast magic against the big eye or no?

MATT: You don't know.

WILL: So should we give it a shot? See, that's the thing, is he's staring right at me.

MARISHA: You could move out of it.

WILL: First thing we want to do is run away. Can we get out of the range of the eye somehow?

MATT: Possibly. You have not encountered a beholder in your time. Go ahead and roll an intelligence check.

WILL: God, it's ironic that I don't even know how to do that.

MATT: Just modifier.

MARISHA: Plus two.

WILL: Yeah. So 12.

MATT: Do what you want to do!

WILL: Thanks for that! How far away can I get?

MATT: I mean, you can move six squares. 30 feet, so.

WILL: Two, three. I want to get away from the eye. Can we move to behind that wall? Is that possible?

MATT: Yup.

WILL: And then, I still can see him, though, but he can look at me, and I'm just going to be wasting stuff if he– So I'm going to hold my action until he's not staring right at me. Can we do that?

MATT: Sure.

WILL: There's not much I can do. Yeah. So that's what I'm going to do. Going to run away.

MATT: Okay, that ends your turn. It is now the beholder's turn. The beholder is going to float up towards the ceiling of the area–

LIAM: How high does he go?

MATT: This is going to put it at–

WILL: 25 feet, right?

MATT: This is going to be– let's see– Need to find something to weigh that down, actually.

TALIESIN: Make a sandbag.

MATT: Perfect. All right, so it is approximately 20 feet up right now, which gets it out of predominantly melee range of most anything at the moment.

LAURA: So now when it looks down at us, does it change the direction of the cone?

MATT: The cone still spreads in the area. And it's going to look right there. So it looks away from you, Kash, so what action did you want to prepare?

WILL: Should we try it now, do you think? I'm going to try to blind it. So if he can't see, maybe he can't do some shit. So I'm going to cast Blindness at a third level.

MATT: Okay!

TALIESIN: He's reading 'Blindness' right now.

MATT: All right, so, constitution saving throw– That is a 19. Where's the DC?

MARISHA: It's fucking 18.

MATT: It resists the spell, unfortunately.

WILL: Oh, shit.

MATT: However, it is now going to make three eye ray attacks. Let's see who's in the radius here. It can't get a ray towards the four of you, so it's going to do one ray at Zahra, one ray at you, Kashaw, and another ray at Zahra. Zahra gets two rays. So, Mary, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: With inspiration.

MATT: If you need it.

LAURA: Add your inspiration, add your inspiration.

MARY: With an inspiration– I have Luck, too.

SAM: Ooh! Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Whenever you need it, but you have an inspiration dice here. That's good. So you're at 18.

MARY: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay. A similar yellowish ray that hit Grog earlier strikes past you and it hits you, but you manage to resist the effect. A light blue ray streaks across towards you, Kashaw. I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom save.

WILL: A wisdom save?

MATT: Yes.

WILL: 20.

MATT: Slams into you, a wave of intense sleepiness comes over you, but you shake yourself out of it. Third ray goes towards you, Zahra. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.

MARY: I have no dexterity–

LIAM: Come on, use Luck if it's sucky.

MARY: 17.

MATT: 17. You manage to duck out of the way as it slams into the wall behind you. This entire chunk, now, is gone.

SAM: What's behind there?

MATT: You see there's a chunk of rock and earth that has been exposed on the opposite side as it just disintegrated that portion of the room.

WILL: He can also just take apart pieces of the model, that's amazing.

MATT: That ends its turn. And now– Because at the top of the round–

MARY: Thank you, Scanlan! Love, kisses, kisses and love.

MATT: Out of one of the slimy surfaces in the room you see, all of a sudden, the stone opens up a phantom eye that just appears out of nowhere, not even attached to this beholder. As it does, another beam streaks out of it–

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: Yes. This is going to be–

TALIESIN: What?

MATT: This'll be at Scanlan.

LAURA: Where did the beam come out of? Where's the eye? Where's the phantom eye?

MATT: The eye for this one will be streaking out of this pillar here. No, no, it'll be this pillar or this wall here, and it just hits toward Scanlan. In the vicinity of the room.

MATT: I need you to make a constitution saving throw, Scanlan.

SAM: Constitution this time? 20.

MATT: 20! All right. As a familiar beam hits you and begins to lift you off the ground, you manage to grab onto the side of the stonework and pull yourself out of its force before it can throw you into the same hole that Kima had tumbled into.

WILL: The Kima hole.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I'd like to run directly beneath it and slightly behind him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Hold! Hold.

TRAVIS: There we go, right there, that's perfect. And I would like to use the Chain of Returning on Craven Edge and throw it up into the bottom of the Beholder.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: That hits! With a five, it fails its saving throw, so you take a plus one strength, he takes a minus one strength.

TRAVIS: Yay, amazing! 19.

MATT: 19?

TRAVIS: Yeah, 19 points of damage.

MATT: All right, great. The blade sinks into it, as you yank it back, go ahead and make an athletics check to pull the blade back.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's an eight.

MATT: That's an eight– You yank on the chain, and it's just still embedded in the bottom of the beholder, you can't seem to pull it back.

TRAVIS: That's all right. Go for a ride.

LIAM: It's like a balloon in the Macy's Day Parade.

TRAVIS: I did get the one strength one?

MATT: You did, yes. All right, Grog, is that the end of your turn?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: Scanlan, you're up. You lucky, lucky gnome, it's your turn.

SAM: He's 25 feet up?

MATT: 20 feet up, technically.

SAM: If I aim a Fireball right at the roof, will it hit any of us?

MATT: Right at the roof?

SAM: 20-foot radius.

MATT: It might, you don't know. Depends on where you're hitting. If you aim it up here, it may hit Grog.

LAURA: Just do it.

SAM: I'll aim on the far side of the beholder.

MATT: Over here?

SAM: Yeah, just up from there.

MATT: Well, you can't see that wall area because it's all blocked there, you can only see through this passage. So you can only hit anything on the ceiling and this way. Unless you move into the room.

SAM: Well, I'll just try to get it as far away from Grog as I can.

MATT: Okay. So we'll say about there is where you can hit it. Go for it.

SAM: Okay! Wand of Fireballs, and I'll do it at fourth level.

MATT: Okay! What is the DC for the wand?

SAM: If I use my– Does that go through the Handcone?

MATT: Not for the wand, no. The wand has its own DC. It should–

SAM: The wand has– ew, a DC of 15.

MATT: Okay. It does make the save, so it takes half damage. So go ahead and roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: Do I have to make a save?

MATT: Currently with the blast area– no, and it would have hit Percy, except for– as the Fireball explodes, the fire just seems to dissipate around the cone, actually absolving the flame from its current position.

SAM: Is he going to be affected?

MATT: He is affected, yes.

SAM: Okay. 30. So 15.

MATT: 15 points of fire damage. Okay. The blast, and you can see some stones (thuds) from the ceiling from the impact of the blast. It weirdly shapes around the cone in the front of its eye. And do you want to move or are you going to stay where you are?

SAM: If I move, he's going to hit me. I will inch away from the precipice?

WILL: “I will inch away from the Kima-hole.”

TALIESIN: God, you even make that sound weird.

SAM: Let's see, who's going next– I will inspire Percy with a song. I will sing: (sings) And if we're talking Percy, you got a perfect gun, so put it on me and pull that trigger, if you shoot him right, you'll end his life, on and on and on–

(cheering)

MATT: Take a d10 inspiration dice for that. All right, Percy, it's your turn.

TALIESIN: First I'm going to deal with this fucker in front of me, so I'm just going to pull out my sword and slash him and stab him and see what happens.

MATT: Okay. So using your quick draw you– Well, you have one hand, so you can pull out a second weapon. So go for it.

TALIESIN: It's a one-handed sword. That's 19 to hit?

MATT: 19 hits.

TALIESIN: All right, and that's ten points of damage?

MATT: Ten points of damage. With that you eviscerate– As it croaks out (croaks) and just falls to the ground gurgling, into a pile.

TALIESIN: Sorry. I don't speak Fish.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It's the worst kill line ever. I especially floundered that one.

LAURA: Can I ask a technical question?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: If I've held my action until he does something and he never does it, do I ever get to go?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: I just hold it until the end of the turn?

MATT: Yep, and then you get a next turn.

LIAM: So technically that's a gamble, and if the thing you ask for never happens you forfeit your turn?

MATT: Let me check the rules real fast just to make sure, because I don't want to screw you over.

LAURA: It's good to know I'm gambling that away if–

MATT: Let me double-check, because the internet will let me know if I mess it up. It's technically readying an action, so–

LIAM: Did you remember Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: I didn't do Hunter's Mark on purpose. Because I can't do any magic on him, because he's looking at me.

MATT: How it is with this, essentially, is you wait for the trigger, or you can ignore the trigger, which means if you want to, you can just do it at any point if it never happens, so at the end of the next person's turn, you could unleash–

LAURA: Say 'screw it.'

MATT: Totally.

LIAM: So you can just chime in and say, 'Fuck what I said, I'm going now'?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So, my other question is, my attempt to cast a spell while in the cone– does that cancel out that spell so I can't cast it anymore?

MATT: Yes, the spell is used, unfortunately. Beholders, man. They're assholes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to make a run for cover towards the– where's the laser pointer?

MATT: Towards which way?

TALIESIN: Run that way. There. Am I still in its–

MATT: One more, if you want to.

TALIESIN: Okay, and while I'm running I'm going to take a shot, I'm going to pull out the big gun and take a shot with the big gun.

MATT: Okay!

TALIESIN: And I'm going to attempt to make this a legs/wing hit, and I'm going to try and knock him down.

MATT: Does not have legs, does not have wings.

TALIESIN: Oh, shit, okay, that's fair.

MATT: Hovering entities aren't really affected by prone. You would know that.

TALIESIN: No they're not. That's very fair. In that case, I'm going to just do a sharpshooter shot and see how this goes.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Roll well. And I have inspiration, which I'm going to add to that. So that's– That's 18 to hit?

MATT: 18 just hits. Scanlan comes through again!

TALIESIN: Thank you! That's very useful. Where's my other d12? Why do I never have any d12s? There they are.

MATT: Keyleth, you're on deck, so be prepared.

TALIESIN: Nine, ten, 11, 12– That's 28 points of damage.

MATT: 28 points of damage!

TALIESIN: And reload, and that's the end of my turn.

MATT: That's the end of your turn, that's all your attacks. Okay. That ends it with Percy. At the end of your turn, Percy, it's going to do one of its eye rays. This one is going to be towards Grog, because Grog is out of the cone and rushed underneath, throwing the blade up, and stuck into it. One of the eyestalks shoots down– Okay, Grog, I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I get advantage on those. Because of– D-D-D-Danger Sense! 19– 21.

MATT: 21, all right, not a worry. You manage to duck out of the way before it slams into you. All right!

TRAVIS: What kind of ray was it?

MATT: It was a black ray that streaked towards you. A ray you're very familiar with.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I remember that one.

MATT: All right, Keyleth. It's your go.

MARISHA: Question. Did enough stones fall out of the ceiling that might be, like, me-shaped?

MATT: Not from the ceiling, no. You currently only have two–

MARISHA: From the Fireball?

MATT: No, because it's mostly flame. It's the impact and explosion, it's not enough to damage the structure of it.

MARISHA: Is the ceiling considered worked stone or is it just carved out?

MATT: Unfortunately it is considered worked stone. If you wanted to, like, shape up there and try and break through it, you could attempt that.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do that.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Like, the hole that was already created by Scanlan's Fireball?

MATT: Okay. So, you– what's your movement as an earth elemental?

MARISHA: Well, I dunno, I'm doing the Earth Glide, so– Oh! 30 feet? Do I make it?

MATT: 20– 30– it's cutting it close.

MARISHA: Just make it? Okay. And I just want to–

MATT: All right, go ahead and make a strength check, with the strength of the earth elemental.

MARISHA: Oh wait, was that cocked? I don't know. I don't think so. And it's not great, no, seven.

MATT: Seven? No, you pull up and you slam your fist into the stone beneath you, and it cracks a little bit, but not enough to give way at all. So you are currently resting up in this vicinity.

MARISHA: That's my turn?

MATT: I mean, that's your action and your movement.

MARISHA: Try it again next time.

MATT: Kima can't do anything right now, so Kima's just currently trying to heal her wounds a bit. She can heal–

TALIESIN: “Okay! Not dead!”

LIAM: “Think I'll take a walk!”

MATT: At the end of your turn, it's going to attempt another eye ray. This one is going to be at Kashaw. Five through– well, actually, those they don't have to reroll for the same, because they're each different turns. I need you to make a dexterity save, Kashaw.

WILL: 21.

MATT: 21. You guys are rolling some serious fucking saving throws! As a DM who loves using a beholder, it's really frustrating.

(laughter)

MATT: That's great. All right, so you dodge the same black ray that just streaked past Grog, ducking out of the way as it (vmm) across the wall. All right, that brings us to Zahra.

MARY: I believe I still have Witch Bolt going. Now, my question is, because Witch Bolt is a concentration, I still have a cantrip of Eldritch Blast, which is not a concentration. May I use Witch Bolt, just the single–

MATT: Witch Bolt is an action to use and it only does 1d12.

MARY: Yes, I know, but it's still going, so technically it's an automatic 1d12 damage.

MATT: Well, you have to use your action to do it, which means you can't cast any other spells if you do it.

MARY: I can't cast any other spells.

MATT: Yeah.

MARY: Big hairy balls. All right, I'm going to Eldritch Blast, plus invoke Agonizing Blast, which does not use a spell slot.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll three attacks with your ranged spell attack against the beholder.

LAURA: 12s.

MARY: These are d12s. I need d10s.

LAURA: You need 20s for attacks.

MARY: Oh, just attack? I'm going to use Luck. 12?

MATT: Plus?

LAURA: Plus your attack modifier.

MARY: I'm sorry. So that's 23.

MATT: Okay, so that hits. Second one?

MARY: (groans) 13.

MATT: Misses. And the third one?

MARY: Natural one.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARY: Can't Luck on that?

LAURA: I don't think so.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll 1d10 plus five.

MARY: Six plus five. 11.

MATT: 11 points of damage as your beam streaks and blasts it from the side–

LAURA: I use my action, since that's the end of it, right? I pop out and I shoot two arrows at him. (grunts) That's it. Just like (groans).

WILL: That was awesome.

MATT: Both of the attacks do not get the magical bonus to hit and damage, so whatever your attack bonus is minus two to damage and hit.

LAURA: Because of my bracers. No.

MATT: Actually, it would be minus four. All of your magical equipment doesn't work when you're in its eye.

LAURA: I know, but my bracers only add to damage.

MATT: Right, but your actual bow is magical and adds to hit and damage. Minus two to hit and minus four to damage.

LAURA: Four to damage?! Why four?

MATT: Technically, it's just supposed to be plus two to hit on that item, actually. Misunderstanding. It's all good. So?

LAURA: Well, this one is 29.

MATT: That hits. And the other one is?

LAURA: 20.

MATT: This is with the minus two?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, they both hit. Roll damage on each, minus four.

LAURA: Oh, god. That's pathetic. Five. Ten.

MATT: All right. 15 points of total damage. As you streak around, releasing these two mundane arrows from a mundane bow, momentarily, both hit, and you can see now, it's starting to look a little rough. It's hurting. There's streaks of blood out of various wounds it's taken. It still has Craven Edge jammed into its underside, stuck in its craw. All right, so that brings us back to the end of Zahra's turn, where it uses its third and final ray.

MARY: I haven't moved.

MATT: Yeah, you can move if you want to. Where do you want to move?

MARY: Actually, I'm going to stay where I am.

MATT: Okay. This last ray is going to–

TRAVIS: So tense in the silent moment before he said that.

MARY: I know.

MATT: This one's going to be at Scanlan, since all of the rays have hit everything else.

LAURA: Everybody's hiding.

MATT: Everyone's in his cone or hiding and Scanlan's the one little visible one there.

LAURA: Oh, that's right. He can't attack anything within his own cone.

MATT: All right, I need you to make a constitution saving throw, Scanlan.

SAM: 17.

MATT: 17? All right. Jesus Christ, guys. You take, as this shimmering purple ray slams into your chest, you manage to get most of the ray to not impact you in the flesh, but where it hits, you do take some damage, so you suffer 16 points of necrotic damage. All right. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I am going to– (scoffs) If I run back to where I was standing, am I out of its fricking cone?

MATT: You would be, yeah.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to do that.

(laughter)

MATT: You'd have to get over there to get to a space out of it.

LAURA: All right. Back to all my magical stuff. All right, I'm going to shoot from my Sky Sentinel at him. That's my first attack for that, and that is 22 for the first arrow, because it splits.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: No, that was wrong. No, that's right. Oh, that was weird. 16?

MATT: Misses. You get two hits on that with the Sky Sentinel.

LAURA: Okay, so that adds 1d6 to my damage with those.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Okay. Balls. Eight, nine, ten.

MARY: Kill it.

LAURA: 16 for the first. 14 for the second. And then my second attack, I want to shoot through my Blazing Bowstring at it.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll for attack on that one.

LAURA: 17?

MATT: As the arrow ignites in the middle of the air, the enchantment is too strong and actually burns the arrow to a cinder before it reaches its target. Just scattering ash against its body.

TRAVIS: I hope that wasn't one you notched with the owlbear feathers.

LAURA: Oh, no, that wasn't one of my owlbear arrows, for sure. I'm going to duck behind the wall right there, if I can.

MATT: Okay. Actually, currently, all of the areas of the wall are taken by Trinket and Kashaw. You could have Trinket move out of the way.

WILL: Fuck you! Get out of here. I got this part. This is taken!

LAURA: No! Okay, I push Trinket out and make him run around and hide behind the other wall.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Wow. From the mother's mouth.

LAURA: I love you! Move.

MARY: Get out of the way.

LAURA: He's got 40, so technically he could make it behind that other wall.

MATT: All right, so. At this point in time, now, you can see where the slime all over the walls– All of a sudden, a series of tendrils begin to whip out of them.

SAM: Wow.

MARISHA: What is happening?

MATT: All right, so, good to know. So now pretty much all of the slime-covered walls in here and within this hallway are now reaching out these semi-translucent, almost created out of the same slime, tendrils that are reaching out and grasping.

LAURA: What the–

LIAM: Over every part of the wall?

MATT: Yes.

MARY: How far out?

MATT: Out to here, so it's within ten feet.

LAURA: Everything at the walls. Anything hiding.

SAM: Oh, good. I'm glad that we're all right next to a wall.

MATT: Vax, it's your turn.

LIAM: Can you show me where his glance is, again, with that doohickus you have?

MATT: You have to guess. You don't know the specific elements of his ray.

LIAM: I'm going to use Cunning Action to hide.

MATT: Well, first and foremost, at the beginning of your turn, I need you to make a dexterity save.

LIAM: Yeah, evasion. Yeah, don't worry. That's 30.

MATT: All right. Don't say you're using evasion yet. It doesn't damage you. Or you could have wasted your evasion for no reason. However, you do avoid being grappled as they try and grab onto you and hold onto you. You can use your bonus action to–?

LIAM: Hide.

MATT: All right, roll a stealth check.

LIAM: That is a 25.

MATT: 25, okay.

LIAM: I'm going to run past Trinket along the back wall, all around the edge, over to where Vex and Kash are.

MATT: All right, right there.

LIAM: I'm going to keep pushing along–

LAURA: This is our spot!

LIAM: I'm going to get between them, and I know that slows the movement down, but I want to be in there, and I'm going to use my two actions left to throw daggers at the floating fucking bowling ball with eyes.

LAURA: I duck so he can shoot.

MATT: You do not have advantage, because it rolled a natural 20 on its perception check and you are not stealthed.

LIAM: Oh, wow. So the first one is a 21.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Yeah. Second one is a 17.

MATT: That misses.

LIAM: So it's a measly little attack of nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage. A little toothpick impact. That ends your turn.

LIAM: No! I use the last of my movement to lower down behind Kash.

(laughter)

WILL: Wow.

MATT: Kash, at the beginning of your turn, I need you to roll a dexterity save.

WILL: Ten.

MATT: Ten. The tendrils wrap around you, and you're currently grappled, which means you cannot move.

WILL: Okay, so can I cast– well, can I use Freedom of Movement on myself?

MATT: You could, yeah, if you really wanted to.

WILL: But I guess it wouldn't matter because then that's my turn, right? Am I taking any damage as it's holding onto me?

MATT: No, it's just holding you in place.

TALIESIN: It just feels really uncomfortable.

WILL: It does. It's just uncomfortable and frankly just too close to me, and now a little creepy. Then I guess there's not much I can do.

MARISHA: You can still cast a spell.

WILL: Can I cast a spell still?

MATT: You can certainly try to, yeah.

WILL: All right, then I'm going to try, even from there, being grappled, a 6th-level Flame Strike.

MARISHA: Woo!

WILL: Let's try to do some damage here, if we can.

MATT: So he's going to make his dex save, which he makes, so he takes half damage, but go ahead and roll 8d4. Oh, sorry, 8d6 points of damage.

WILL: d6. That's not bad at all. So we got ten, 16, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26.

MATT: 26, nice. So half of that would be 13.

WILL: 13.

MATT: 13 points of fire and radiant damage as the column of flame bursts up around, impacting. You feel the impact from beneath you, from the blast of it.

MARISHA: Did it maybe loosen a little bit of stone up a little bit more?

MATT: Maybe.

WILL: Nice. And then I can't do anything because I'm grappled, so I can't even move.

MATT: You're grappled, so you can't move. You're there.

WILL: That was my level six spell.

MATT: All righty. That ends your turn. It is now the beholder's turn.

TALIESIN: It's been a while, hasn't it?

MATT: The beholder is going to turn this way.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Hey!

SAM: Hi!

MATT: It's going to back up this way, and it's going to stare down in this direction now.

TALIESIN: Does Grog travel with it, since he's hanging from the chain?

MATT: Do you want to hold on?

TRAVIS: Yeah. It's my fucking sword.

MATT: You get dragged along, holding onto the chain.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yeehaw!

WILL: That is the greatest kite ever.

MATT: So that's going to be three eye ray shots.

SAM: Bye, guys.

TALIESIN: No, you're fine.

MATT: Yeah, you're in the cone. It can't hit you with its eye ray. However, based on the visual there, it's going to be two rays against Kashaw and one against you.

LAURA: Me?

MATT: Vex. Yeah.

LAURA: It can see me?

MATT: Yeah, the eyestalks can see you from there. From that vantage point at the very top, yeah. Against you, Kashaw, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

WILL: (sighs) Nine.

MATT: Nine. Your muscles tense up and lock as you are paralyzed for a minute. You're frozen. While being held by the tentacles.

WILL: Sweet.

MATT: You can't do anything on your turn.

TRAVIS: How do you like them tentacles now?

MATT: It still saw you. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: Okay.

WILL: Come on.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21. Yeah, you manage to duck out of the way. This part of the wall actually, however, blasts out from the impact there as the Disintegration ray destroys the stonework. All right, and Kashaw, I need you to make– oh, no, you–

WILL: I can't do anything, you said.

MATT: You can't. You are paralyzed, so you automatically fail dexterity saving throws.

MARISHA: Oh my god, that's bad.

MATT: All right. The beam hits you and your skin begins to turn a dull gray as you begin to see your flesh beginning to harden around your body. That ends its turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Can I run as far into the alcove that is at his rear, just underneath him, as far as I can? Yeah, right there. Maybe one step closer, so right underneath him.

SAM: You're still attached to the thing?

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, so I'd like to pull the blade out.

MATT: Okay, so this will be your bonus action to pull it out. Make your athletics check.

TRAVIS: And can I– awesome. 23?

MATT: Yeah. You pull the blade out and catch it in your hand.

TRAVIS: Can I hold the rest of my action and look at Scanlan and say, hey, Scanlan! Could you give me a lift?

SAM: Maybe!

TRAVIS: All right, I'm going to hold my action for Scanlan.

MATT: (laughing) Okay. All right. At the end of Grog's turn– Actually, Grog. I fucking forgot to do that. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, which you have advantage on.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: You're fine. All right, so at the end of your turn, it's going to do one of its reactionary eye rays. This one is going to aim for Vex again, because you're one of the few out of its area. Okay. Vex, I need you to make another dexterity saving throw.

MARISHA: Fucking make this shit. Make it!

LAURA: 14.

MATT: 14? Okay. You keep rolling high. It's interesting, I'm missing a bunch of different rays because they aren't even doing anything. Well, this one, however: a similar black ray streaks downward and slams into you. You take 55 points of necrotic damage. All right, that is going to bring it to Scanlan's turn.

SAM: I hoof it towards the altar as fast and as far as my–

MATT: That's as far as you can get, there.

SAM: Shit. That's as far as I can go?

MATT: 25 feet. You're a gnome, man. Tiny little legs.

SAM: Can he see me?

MATT: You don't know. We'll find out if you try something.

SAM: As a bonus action, can I move a couple more feet?

(laughter)

MATT: It doesn't work that way, buddy. Sorry.

SAM: All right, I'll give it a shot. We'll see if he's looking at me. It doesn't look good, though. Wow, that's a tight angle.

TRAVIS: I think you might be just out of it.

(cheering)

SAM: I'm going to cast Bigby's Hand.

MATT: Where?

SAM: And I'm going to do something unorthodox that the DM is going to have to approve.

MATT: Okay. Where were you putting the hand, by the way?

SAM: Around Grog.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And I would like to swing Grog like a hammer at the back of the thing.

MATT: You're fastball special-ing him with Bigby's Hand?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: I am so about this.

(laughter)

SAM: It's a goliath hammer!

MATT: Okay, I want you to go ahead and make a strength check. So roll a d20 and add eight.

SAM: 23.

MATT: Okay. The hand grabs Grog, rears back, and just full strength, lobs towards the beholder. Grog, you go flying up in the air with the added strength of Bigby's Hand behind you. What are you doing?

TRAVIS: I'm just slashing as I'm flying through the air.

MATT: Okay. You get plus eight onto each damage roll from the force of Bigby's Hand.

ALL: Yeah!

TRAVIS: I would like to reckless attack, Great Weapon Master, all three of these.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: All two of them. All two of them. So plus eight.

MATT: Well, plus eight to damage, not hit.

TRAVIS: Plus eight to damage.

MATT: Yeah, so the first one? They're reckless attacks, so you have advantage on them.

TRAVIS: 19?

MATT: 19 hits. Second attack?

LIAM: Slow motion.

TRAVIS: 22?

MATT: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on them. Oh, this is going to be nasty, man.

LAURA: Kill him, Grog!

MARY: Kill him!

TRAVIS: Five, 10, 18, 28, 36 for the first one.

SAM: Was that 26?

LAURA: 36 for the first.

MATT: Ooh.

TRAVIS: Nine, 14, 22, 32. Plus eight is 40.

SAM: Woo!

MATT: As you go streaking through the air, Grog, arc once with the blade across the top, severing a couple of the eyestalks. The second one tears through it. Fails both of its saves with a three and a two.

(cheering)

MATT: You give it a minus two strength. Its strength is reduced by two more.

TALIESIN: Ooh, so you get another strength bonus. You bump up one.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: However, you pass over, and also then plummet immediately to the ground.

(laughter)

LIAM: He's fine.

MARY: He's so fine.

MATT: Falling prone. You take ten points of damage from the impact. Halved to five– well, no, it's not bludgeoning damage, it's just falling damage.

TRAVIS: It's like a hard sneeze.

MATT: Yeah, you take ten points of fall damage and are prone on the ground.

SAM: And Bigby's dissipates, I assume.

MATT: No, Bigby stays there, it's a bonus action. Bigby's just chilling right there where you left it, so.

SAM: Oh! Okay. Great.

MATT: All right, great! That ends– at the end of your turn, Scanlan–

SAM: I would like to use my bonus action to inspire, who's about to go– Vex!

LAURA: Me!

SAM: Vex! Who's taking selfies of her–

LAURA: I was taking a snapsnot.

SAM: I will inspire her with a limerick: Friends, I don't mean to sound bitter / But a year ago, life was a shitter. / 'Til I picked up some dice / With some friends! It was nice! / And now, ah, I'm a Critter.

(cheering)

MATT: Those words make no sense to you, but it sounds like a nice song.

(laughter)

LAURA: It didn't make any sense at all.

MATT: All right. So, at the end of your turn, Scanlan, it's going to go ahead and use another one of its eye rays.

SAM: Oh, Jesus. Should've healed myself. I'm dead.

MATT: This one's going to be at you. Make a constitution saving throw, Scanlan.

LIAM: Come on, Scanlan!

SAM: That's 11, right?

MATT: 11. You take 36 points of necrotic damage from the enervation ray.

TALIESIN: He's not down! But he's looking pretty rough.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay! I'm going to circle around the side of the wall.

MATT: There?

TALIESIN: Just buck myself against the wall. I'm going to take a couple shots with Bad News.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: For a first shot, I'm going to be doing– ah, fuck it, let's take a sharpshooter shot. Let's see what happens.

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: That's 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, that hits.

MATT: That hits, yes.

TALIESIN: 25. So that does 11, 21 points of damage?

MATT: Nice. Reload?

TALIESIN: Reload. Firing again. Also another sharpshooter shot. 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

TALIESIN: That's better. That's– oh, wow. So that's 36 points of damage. Using my Action Surge. Reloading.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Another Sharpshooter shot.

SAM: Kill him!

TALIESIN: That hits! That's the same, I have 13 for– yeah, that hits. Six, seven, eight, nine, ten, that's 26 points of damage.

MATT: Looking rough, man!

SAM: How's this thing still alive?

MATT: Beholders. (gunshot) Reload. (gunshot) Reload a second time. (gunshot) Third and final shot. Each time, blasting chunks out of its flesh. You can now see, like, bits of teeth are shattered from the impact. The eye's now bloodshot and dark. Blood is, like, seeping from under the large eye, it's like (groans).

TALIESIN: I reload one last time and I am going to try and hide behind that column right over there.

WILL: Nice. Nice work, Percy.

MATT: At the end of your turn it's going to do its third and final one. All right, this is going to be at Zahra. No, Zahra, you're in its cone, so it's not going to aim it at you. You're paralyzed–

TRAVIS: (chuckles) “And you're paralyzed.”

MATT: So, it's there– Vex, you're up!

LAURA: Fuck!

MATT: Okay. Vex, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity check.

LAURA: Okay. 24?

MATT: Yeah, you're fine.

LAURA: 23, it's 23.

MATT: 23, all right. The interesting rays aren't coming up, it's really pissing me off.

WILL: The interesting rays.

MATT: These are just, like, rays that just do damage, there's ones that do cool stuff. All right, Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. I forgot this last time; as a siege monster, I can deal double damage to objects and structures. I'm assuming this is a structure, yeah? If I want to, like beat through it?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay, so I'm going to do a slam attack through it. Come on! Ah, fuck. I don't know if that stone'll respond. Oh, this is to the wall, though, right?

MATT: The wall, yes. It has, like, no armor class.

MARISHA: So 14.

MATT: Yeah, go ahead and roll damage. Double damage.

MARISHA: To the wall. 2d8 plus five.

SAM: Keyleth, attack the monster, not the wall!

MARISHA: Five, so that's 24 damage. To the ceiling.

MATT: The ceiling breaks as you move forward, falling down.

MARISHA: I'm just going to try and once again catch him in–

MATT: How many attacks do you have as the–?

MARISHA: I have two. I have a multiattack; I can use two slam attacks.

MATT: True. So you do one slam attack to break it; for a second attack you could attempt to–

MARISHA: To, like, punch the beholder into the ground?

MATT: Oh, you can attempt to make a slam attack to push it down, if that's what you're wishing to do.

MARISHA: That's what I want to do.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make the attack.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Yeah, yeah.

TALIESIN: Big money, no whammies.

MARISHA: Okay, okay, that's not bad, that's not bad. 21!

MATT: That was awesome. Okay. 21, that definitely hits. Let me just–

LAURA: Kill him, Keyleth!

MATT: There we go. All right, so actually, that would be your athletics check.

MARISHA: I'll take it!

MATT: What was the athletics for the form?

MARISHA: (laughs) Oh. I guess I just have my dex?

MATT: Strength.

MARISHA: My strength? Which is a plus five.

MATT: Yeah, so, what's the total?

MARISHA: It was a total for my d20 roll?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: That would be 18?

MATT: 18, that works. So no damage is dealt, but you punch the Beholder down back onto the ground, and you land at its side, right there.

LIAM: Is it on the ground or five feet above the ground?

MARISHA: Am I, like, on top of it?

MATT: It's, like, five feet above the ground; it's still within– You're not on top of it per se, because you didn't grapple, you slammed it. So you land next to it, essentially.

SAM: Nice job, Thing.

MARISHA: Okay, so I just brought him down. Do I do any damage?

MATT: You take six points of fall damage from the impact. No big deal.

LAURA: Mmm, I shouldn't say it. Do you get to stay as an earth elemental if you're right in front of him?

MATT: That's right, is it a magical ability?

MARISHA: Beast Sense? Beast Shape?

MATT: Checking right now.

MARISHA: I was wanting to, like, ride him, stand on top of him–

MATT: Right, but as part of the– that would be a grapple, as opposed to a slam, so unfortunately that wouldn't be the case. And for–

MARISHA: I would've had to, like, specify?

MATT: Wild Shape. “Magically assume the shape of a beast.” As you fall past its eye–

(groaning)

MATT: Keyleth returns to her normal form.

MARISHA: That sucks. I can't crawl backwards? I can't, y'know, like– butterfly effect?

MATT: No, that was the placement where you were above it, unfortunately. All right. That ends your turn, though. Zahra, you're up.

MARY: (sighs) All right. Oh, it's looking towards me– hmm.

MARISHA: Can I do a bonus action, then, if I fell out of my form, and cast a spell as a bonus action?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Can I cast Grasping Vine? No, wait, no, never mind, I can't grapple.

SAM: Oi! Look at the guy right behind you!

MARISHA: Okay, I'll cast Healing Word on Scanlan.

TRAVIS: (laughing) There you go!

MATT: Okay! You go ahead and cast the spell, and as you reach behind– No effect.

MARISHA: Oh, son of a fuck, I'm in his fuckin' front eye! God damn it. Shit– cock– balls–

TRAVIS: You've got, like, 12 healing potions!

LAURA: They don't work in front of him, right? They're magic?

MARY: They're potions, though–

MATT: One way to find out. What are you doing, Zahra?

MARY: All right, I'm going to… One, two, three, four, five, six. I'm going back behind him.

MATT: You're aiming at the screen, I don't know where that is.

MARY: Oh, say– hey, where are you?

(laughter)

MARY: There. And then I'm going to use my Charred Dark Staff, being right next to the son-of-a-bitch, and I will use Witch Bolt one more time, only because it's got the biggest amount of damage. I'll use it at fifth level, so I'll still have one charge left on my staff.

MATT: All right! So go ahead and roll a d20 with your spell attack modifier.

LAURA: Okay, Zahra, you're going to get him. I can feel it.

MARY: Natural 20.

(cheering)

WILL: That was three, baby! That's my Z right there!

MATT: Go ahead and roll your damage. So that's 5d12.

MARY: 5d12.

SAM: Whoa! This could do it!

MARY: All right, these are all d12s.

LAURA: Those are all 12s, yes.

MARY: Okay. 19– 35– 35.

LAURA: Times two– 70.

MARY: 70.

SAM: Whoa, wait, what? Two? Wait? Huh?

MARISHA: She critted.

MATT: All right, so it's 35 points of damage on, from the five–

MARY: Plus two.

MATT: Well, the plus two's after. 35 times two, so that would be 70 points of damage.

MARY: 72.

MATT: 72 points of damage.

All right, how do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MARY: Scanlan, how would you like to use Bigby's Hand to do this?

SAM: Bigby's Hand is not doing it, you're the one doing it!

MARY: I'm doing it, all right, I want to stick my bloody staff into his eyeball and make him explode.

MATT: Okay. My token's not facing the right way.

SAM: I'll use Bigby's Hand to catch some of the sinew and blood and–

MARY: (laughing) Some of the spewing!

MATT: All right, so. As you glance over at Scanlan and give him that visual perspective of, “Let's do this,” you glance over, reach out your hand and pull Bigby's Hand towards you. It streaks up and grabs the back of the beholder like a baseball, just palming it, thrusting it down towards you, Zahra. Its mouth open, it reaches down, teeth open, momentarily frustrated by the moment, it's going to use this to try and bite down. As you reach up, you slam your staff up into its mouth and release the Witch Bolt at ground zero from the inside of its body. The eye widens for a second as the top of the staff pierces the upper part of its palate, and with a burst of black and bluish electrical energy, the entirety of its skull just (explosion), just detonates from the inside, sending chunks of slimy flesh and bone and whatever brain matter resides inside the cranium of this beholder scattering across the room.

MARY: Are we all covered in muck?

MATT: Yes, you are.

MARY: Yes!

WILL: Oil can!

LAURA: I immediately call out, help Kash!

MARY: Kash!

LIAM: And I start running to the edge. Kima! Are you all right?

MARISHA: I run to the edge with Vax, since I saw fucking Kima go over.

MARY: Can I go over and help Kash?

MATT: Yes. Well, as the beholder dies, the ray eventually fades off– And the tendrils retract into the wall.

MARY: So I pull him up, pick him up.

LAURA: I run to look over the edge to take care of Kima, too.

MARY: Covered in muck, I look at my brother and I say, are you all right?

WILL: I'm all right, thank you.

LAURA: I'm pulling the rope out and trying to lower it over the edge.

LIAM: I'm going down, I'm rappelling. Rappelling. Rappelling.

MATT: You hear the voice echoing from inside: “I'm all right! Relatively speaking.”

MARISHA: Vax is coming down to get you!

LIAM: Hold on, yeah, yeah, I'll give a– piggy-back you up, come on. Just wait a moment.

MATT: As you come down, pulling your dagger out and using it as a torch, down in the inside as you're lowered, you can see there are hundreds of partially eaten corpses of those fish humanoids that you encountered earlier, as well as what appears to be various cradles of gathered slime and putrescence, the real core of where this Beholder had been existing at the bottom of this tomb.

LAURA: If you'd gone down there, I would've jumped right down there.

MATT: Kima's down there, currently holding one shoulder. You can see, she's tended to herself with her wounds for the most part on her own, but just currently looks up, like, “I've got nothing.” As soon as you descend from the pit dangling from the rope, she goes: “Okay! Good.”

LIAM: Hold on, let's tie you up. Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: I'm going to tie her up, you're going to pull her up first, and then throw it down and get me.

TRAVIS: Pull her up and throw her down?

LIAM: Yeah– no! Almost! Just pull Kima up!

TRAVIS: Okay!

LIAM: Step two is coming! And I'm going to use perception on this pile of bones down here as she gets yanked up.

LAURA: Look for any loot!

MATT: Roll investigation.

MARY: Should we go to the tomb?

SAM: I'm chugging a greater healing potion while I look around for any loot around the altar and around the dead bodies.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Trinket, with me, if you wouldn't mind. And we're going to walk up to the altar and push the sarcophagus open.

MATT: Okay. So you guys move up and push the sarcophagus open. As you guys slowly start bringing Kima up, the rope itself tense with the weight, 'cause she's wearing a lot of armor, but it manages to pull her up without issue. You go ahead to the top of the sarcophagus there and it is covered in black feathers, some of which got pushed off in the battle. You shove the top open and you can see inside a skeletal corpse that is resting, surrounded by what looks like very, very fine golden and silver jewelry that have just been laid at its sides. And on the corpse itself, you can see there is a set of jet-black studded leather armor that has a series of runic engravings and carvings along pretty much every square inch of the leather. And you can see around the mantle of it, where the leather mantle falls, the edge is trimmed with black feathers.

MARISHA: That's hot.

TRAVIS: That's fuckin' sick.

LIAM: That's some Labyrinth of Jareth shit right there.

TRAVIS: Artists, go!

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: 15, a very average 15.

MATT: 15?

LAURA: I'm trying to– Brother, I'm going to go look at the stuff that they're finding, okay? Be safe!

LIAM: Okay. I'm looking through some bones.

LAURA: And I run over to the sarcophagus.

MATT: You find what looks to be– roughly, within the brief time you've spent, and you've spent like a good ten minutes kind of, like, combing through the slime, you find about six gold pieces.

LIAM: Oh, wow. Are there any fish-guy bones?

MATT: Plenty of fish-guy bones, yeah!

LIAM: I play a couple of them on the wall. Do a little song.

MATT: All right. It's beautiful with the echo, it gives it this sort of reverberation effect to it.

WILL: Kash walks over and heals Kima.

MATT: Okay, as Kima gets pulled over the edge, you reach over and help. She's like, “Thanks, appreciate that, I– that didn't go as planned. I'm a little embarrassed.”

LAURA: (laughs) All good, Kima!

MATT: “It was a very long fall! And I survived that–”

TRAVIS: You did! Did you feel anything squish when you landed?

MATT: “Eh, nothing I couldn't handle.”

TRAVIS: Did you black out?

MATT: “No.”

SAM: Did you pee your underoos?

MATT: (laughs) Make an insight check.

TRAVIS: Shit, my insight's balls– Five.

MATT: No, man. She owned that fall!

TRAVIS: Yeah, you's a badass bitch.

MARY: It was a heck of a scream as you went down.

LIAM: Grog!

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: Throw down the rope! Please?

TRAVIS: Oh, I so want to just throw the entire rope down.

(laughter)

LIAM: Pretty please?

TRAVIS: Without holding onto the other end? No, no, no, I know what he means.

LAURA: It's infinite rope!

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I would throw the whole thing down. I throw it down to him.

MARY: Are there any beholder teeth left? Anything? Any sort of–

MATT: I mean, there are chunks of, there are a few full teeth that you could try and take.

MARISHA: Keyleth actually goes over and starts doing her harvesting thing.

MATT: Not a whole lot left to harvest. Like, it is destroyed. There's a few eyestalks that you could probably pull.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's true, I'll check out the eyestalks.

LAURA: Can we perception check the tomb and see if it's safe to grab shit out of it?

MATT: Sure, go ahead and make an investigation check

TRAVIS: Hey, Vax, you got that rope yet?

LIAM: Thank you!

TALIESIN: I'm going to– Very gently, I'm removing the leather armor from the body.

MATT: Okay, I need Vex, I need Percy, and I need Trinket to all make dexterity saving throws.

LIAM: Evil shit.

LAURA: One.

SAM: Dead. Instant death.

LIAM: Why are you rolling twice?

LAURA: For Trinket!

TALIESIN: I'm going to use one of my re-reroll a saving throw.

LAURA: Six for Trinket! It's a good night, you guys.

SAM: Did I find any loot in the bodies of the losers? The little guys?

MATT: You find a bunch of shitty spears, crappy leather, and through all them all, about 12 gold pieces.

TALIESIN: That can almost buy a book. 21.

MATT: You manage, as you reach out and grab for the armor, as your fingers touch it, there's this vibration and it seems like the shadows, the nearby shadows in the corners, seem to reach up towards your hands. You pull back in time, but you and Trinket notice a little too late as there's a burst of death. A burst of death energy that just bursts out for a ten-foot radius around the entire sarcophagus. You avoid it. Both you and Trinket suffer 56 points of necrotic damage.

LAURA: I'm unconscious. Trinket–

MATT: Does that bring you below zero?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Vex's body falls and hits the stonework, and you look over as you see her eyes stare up, the last bit of air escaping from her lungs as the life drips out of her form.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

MARY: What?

LIAM: What's going on?

TALIESIN: Running over.

MARY: What? Running over, pouring a healing potion in her mouth, instantly, as quickly as possible.

WILL: I can revive her too.

MARY: Kash, do something.

MATT: The healing potion has no effect, and as you go to her, you can already feel the clutch to her skin. Her body is instantly cold from the necrotic blast.

MARISHA: Kashaw!

MATT: You glance over at the sudden intense energy of the room and see your sister lying cold and lifeless on the ground, being cradled by Zahra.

LIAM: The fuck happened?

MARY: Kash, Kash, Kash.

WILL: I can raise the dead.

LIAM: I run over.

WILL: I can revivify or I can raise the dead.

MARISHA: Revivify, revivify.

WILL: Let's do it.

LIAM: I'm already running over. I'm picking her up. What happened? I was only down there for 30 seconds.

MATT: Do you have it prepared?

WILL: What do you mean?

MATT: Do you have it prepared as one of your prepared spells?

WILL: I believe so, yeah.

MATT: Check your list to see if it has a little dot next to it.

LIAM: I'm pouring a healing potion in her mouth. I'm pouring a greater potion in her mouth.

MATT: Okay. No effect.

LIAM: The fuck is going on?

WILL: Yes, I do.

TALIESIN: Do it. Do it.

WILL: I do. I have it prepared.

SAM: It's true. It's written down. It's true.

TALIESIN: Do it.

WILL: And I have third levels left.

TALIESIN: Do it.

MARISHA: Oh my God, I'm shaking.

WILL: I can bring her back.

MATT: You rush over. You reach in your pouch and pull out a bit of clustered diamonds in your hand that you keep just in case for such a circumstance, and as you place them out, you sprinkle them across her chest, pushing Vax a little bit away, knowing that you need the concentration on this, at which point you pull up the symbol, and this type of magic, life and death magic, draws a little closer than you feel comfortable with Vesh, and you realize at this moment that you're going to have to make the choice to possibly call her attention forth.

SAM: Call whose attention forth?

LIAM: What are you hesitating for? Do it. Whatever the fuck you're going to do, do it.

WILL: She could destroy everything.

LIAM: Do it.

MARISHA: What do you mean, she could destroy? What do you mean?

SAM: Who's she?

WILL: I mean the dragons are going to be the least of your fears if she comes back. That's what I mean.

MARISHA: Kashaw, you're running out of time.

SAM: Who's she?

WILL: I'm going to bring her back.

MATT: Okay. So, we're going to do a quick ritual skill challenge as part of this revivify enchantment. So as you grasp the symbol, and as you do, you can see all of the scars across your forearm begin to light with a deep red crimson energy, just (hissing sound), and you close your eyes, and as you look up, you can see Kash's eyes just go straight black, and this dark energy begins to swirl off, and as it reaches out, it touches the diamonds, which then shatter upon impact, and the dark energy seeps into your sister's corpse. The back arches, though she does not register on the face or any of her movement. Her body lifts slightly in place, her arms just draped, dangling and scraping against the stone beneath her as she's elevated there. How do you guys want to help with this ritual?

TALIESIN: I take out three of my shards of residuum, and I place them in where the crystals are as an extra offering.

MATT: Okay, so you place the residuum across where the diamond dust was shattered and use that as almost a focus for the energy from the spell. All right, I need you to go ahead and roll an intelligence check. Just roll a d20 and add your intelligence modifier.

LAURA: I'm going to throw up. Oh no.

TALIESIN: I can use my rerolls as well, correct? I can't use my–

MATT: That's for saving throws, not for ability checks. What did you roll?

TALIESIN: Six.

MATT: Six. The energy itself vibrates within the glass shards, which then shatter, seemingly not able to focus the energy of the spell.

MARY: I take my enchanted moonstone from my staff and place it next to her.

MATT: Okay, so as you take the moonstone, and– are you speaking to your patron to aid with this?

MARY: I am.

MATT: All right, so as you take the moonstone and hold it aloft, you place it near the focus of Kashaw's ritual. The dull white glow begins to intermingle with the dark, shattered energy of Vesh's grant, and as they impact, it creates this strange grey swirl. I need you to go ahead and roll an arcana check. Roll a d20 and add your arcana skill to it.

LIAM: Depending on what she does, I'd like to do something next.

LAURA: (whispered) That's good. That's good.

MARY: 17.

MATT: Okay. The grey balances, and where the two meet now, there is just grey energy seeping into her body. You, focusing, look up at the altar where the body was, and you see the very faint drifting image of a dark female form looking on. Who wants to make the third and final attempt to aid?

SAM: I will–

LIAM: I do.

SAM: Oh, sure, I will let you do that.

LIAM: I pull my sister in close, and I say, take me instead, you raven bitch.

MATT: Go ahead and make a persuasion check. With advantage.

LIAM: 11.

MATT: 11. Okay. At this point, the dark female form that drifts from the altar, you glancing up intently, feeling the sudden intense, fearful gaze of Vesh upon you. As it gets closer and closer, the presence is different. What you feared was Vesh is not Vesh, actually. It is an image, a specter of the Raven Queen herself. The face is formless at this proximity. You can't make any details. It's just this perpetually blurred female form of a face. The hair just tumbles down past, and as it steps forward, no expression, no words. The hand reaches out towards you, Vax. There's a nod. The magic strengthens, focusing through your moon crystal into Vax's body. I'll take a picture of this so that no one questions this. A moment passes. A second moment passes. The vision of the Raven Queen nods the head to you, steps backward, and the specter vanishes. (gasping) Breath fills Vex's lungs as she begins to cough, her form drifting back to the stonework. Your vision clears, and you find yourself looking up at the partially broken stone ceiling of the dark altar into the face of your brother, tears streaming down his face, the rest of your friends gathered around.

LAURA: What happened?

MARY: Hello, darling.

LAURA: I feel so cold.

LIAM: You were knocked out.

LAURA: Knocked out?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: (sighs) Well, that was a close one. (laughs) Did we find anything?

MARISHA: I reach out, and I touch Vax on his back. Do I feel or sense anything different?

MATT: No.

LAURA: (exaggerated sobbing) God.

MARY: I take my stone and put it back in my staff.

LAURA: Why are you crying?

LIAM: I'm not crying, stupid.

WILL: I'm all right. You people suck.

SAM: I just hand Vex 30 gold and say, sorry about before.

LAURA: What happened?

TRAVIS: You fucking died.

MARY: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah. We turned around. I pull your brother out of the pit, and you're laying there lifeless on the floor.

LAURA: What?

MATT: At which point, you immediately have this perpetual slapping of wet bear tongue across your face as Trinket is just (bear noises) nuzzling up against you and, like, pressing all his weight against your body to an almost intense degree.

LAURA: All right, all right. Your breath is lovely. Okay. How did I–

TRAVIS: How do you feel?

LAURA: I feel– I feel cold?

MARY: Here, take my cape.

LAURA: How am I not dead, then, if I died–?

TRAVIS: That's a good question. Vax, how are you feeling?

LAURA: (softly) Vax–

LIAM: I walk out of the chamber.

LAURA: Wait, Percy, did you set off a trap? Is that how I died?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: (laughing nervously) Well– who brought me back?

SAM: Kash.

TALIESIN: And your brother.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: And Zahra.

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: I grab Kash by the hand and, just to him: What does this mean?

WILL: To be honest, I have no idea.

MARISHA: How do you feel?

WILL: I feel okay. I hope the barrier that was sealed has remained sealed, or this is the start of very bad things.

MARISHA: Why did you do that?

WILL: 'Cause I knew you wanted me to.

TRAVIS: Hey, Vex, do you want any, like– ale or anything? You– I got some, like, firewater?

LAURA: Yes! Yeah, yeah, give me some of that. It'll warm me up.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: We need to get those– those leathers, those vestiges or whatever, and get the– out of here.

TRAVIS: Well, I think that was the problem, right? Did we get it?

MATT: No, that's– the moment you touched it is when that blast went off.

TRAVIS: Right.

LAURA: Can we not– can we investigate it and see if there's any traps? I mean, how do we make sure it doesn't happen again?

MARY: Well, let's keep you away from it for now, darling. Have a sip of firewater, just to warm you up.

TRAVIS: Here, here's a big flask of firewater.

WILL: Can we read any of the runes that are on the–

MATT: As you walk back up to the altar and look on the inside, the corpse is dust. The blast, whatever it was, while it didn't damage anything, seemingly, the remains are dust. The armor is laid there, same place it was when you found it, if a little slumped in without any sort of something to fill it out. Also, most of the jewelry that's there has turned green and seems to have been robbed of whatever precious metal it was once contained. The only thing that sticks out to you is what looks to be a black crystal that comes to a point on one end. It has a loop on it like it was part of a medallion or a necklace or some sort of a loop to carry on a chain. Those are the only two things you see within.

MARY: So the leather is gone?

MATT: No, the leather is there. The corpse is gone.

MARY: Yes. All right. Is there any way to pick this up without touching it? I mean, is there any way to– can I use Mage Hand to lift it?

MATT: Yeah, yeah. It's pushing the boundaries of Mage Hand, but you can try.

MARY: I can hold up to ten pounds.

MATT: Yeah. It's full leather armor. You can just– I'd say–

SAM: I can assist, I've got Mage Hand as well.

TRAVIS: Look, I'm a giant tank and I've got a super long, like, sword, I could try and give it a pick-up if everybody backs away.

MARY: Well, what if I lifted it up and put it onto your sword, and then you could carry it out that way?

TRAVIS: I was going to put it in the Bag of Holding.

MARY: Oh, put it in the Bag of Holding? Can I lift it up and put it in the Bag of Holding?

WILL: Again, can we read anything that's written on it?

MARY: Well, we need it, that's what's going to help you guys.

MATT: Well, all the runes are inscribed there; you can make an arcana check. Or religion check, one of the two, probably would.

MARY: I glance at it, I can read. I have Eyes of the Runekeeper.

MATT: The language is a forgotten language. It has been dead for– probably since before the Divergence. But your eyes clarify on it in the arcane nature of your sight. You pick up phrases throughout, and it is a tale of the creation of the Raven Queen. It is a tale of her ascendance from mortal to immortal. It is the history of her penance for ascending and taking the throne of another entity that was supplanted. It's just seemingly a history tale that is woven in with a very, very strong enchantment, and you see within each one of these little runic sections, there are mentions of elements: fire, ice, lightning, you know, it runs through all these various elemental arcane properties that are bound into this enchantment. You're not entirely certain what the nature of it is.

MARY: Well, do you want to put it into the Bag of Holding and then deal with it later, when you're up against these things?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Matt, I just did an arcana check and got a 23; does that help us know anything at all?

MATT: Okay. It is very magical, it is very enchanted, and I'd say, based on the circumstances in looking at this, whatever the blast that was set off here, the runic elements that maintained that trap that were in the sarcophagus are currently expended.

SAM: Okay. Let's take it!

MARY: All right, what about the jewelry and the black crystal?

MATT: You can take the black crystal as well.

TRAVIS: It was the runic things in the sarcophagus that set off that blast, not the leather itself?

MATT: You don't know. But there were two runic circles within the inside of the sarcophagus that were not visible when you first looked into it, that are both now visible and expended of energy.

TRAVIS: All right, yeah, let's put it in the Bag of Holding. You want to Mage Hand onto my swordy, and then we shish-kabob it into the bag?

MARY: Yes, I'll take the crystal as well. Is that the only thing– the rest are all tarnished and green, yes?

MATT: Yeah.

MARY: All right. So here's the black– can I do an investigation check on the crystal at all, or–?

MATT: You'd probably have to take some time with it, like a short rest, to go ahead and ascertain the nature of it.

MARY: All right. Well, maybe on the way back. I don't know. Get some insight– so here. Mage Hand it up. There we are.

MATT: So you gather your findings, your first retrieval of one of the Vestiges of Divergence a success, barring difficult circumstances. You make your way back out through the tomb.

MARISHA: I walk up to Vex. And I just say: you know, he loves you very, very much. So very much.

LAURA: Thank you, dear.

MARY: I'm so sorry, but we still have to deal with the water and getting out of here. A stone– don't we have a stone wall there? We still have to get out.

MARISHA: I still have one more Control Water spell I can do.

MATT: Yeah. Well, it wouldn't be an issue. We'll say for the sake of story brevity, you guys make your way up through the temple in relative silence, just taking in the moments that have transpired. Through the aid of Keyleth and the rest of the party, you manage to make your way back out the way you came, parting the remnants of the Marrowglade Loch, and start making your way back, in the darkened evening hours, towards Vasselheim.

LAURA: We need rest!

MATT: Do you want to rest on the outside of the loch here?

LAURA: I feel like we should maybe camp and sleep and rest up and get– I don't know, it's up to you guys.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I think a little treeline rest would be a good idea. Before we go anywhere else.

MARY: I pull Vex aside and say, walk with me for a moment.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: And I go with Kashaw.

MATT: Okay.

MARY: I'm not sure what just happened, but I need you to know that you're very dear to me. I've only known you for a short period of time– At any rate, while you were gone, and I'm not sure how much time I'll be spending with you from now– I have something for you. After our fight with Rimefang, I forged something for you as well. And it is one Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. And I want you to have this, if for some reason I'm not here, or I can't help you. I want you to use this to do whatever you can to get rid of these things.

LAURA: (whispers) Thank you, Zahra.

MARY: You're welcome.

LAURA: Want to kill it.

MARY: Yeah. I want you to kill it. And I want you to write me and tell me how you did it. Details. Lots and lots of details.

MATT: Now it's Keyleth and Kashaw–

MARISHA: You know, Kashaw, for a cleric, I was concerned maybe you didn't believe in much at all. And I was very unsure of how you got all of your radiant powers, considering I didn't know what you believed in. But you must believe in something. So what is it?

WILL: I believe in life. That's all I was raised to believe in, was life. When you're married to death, it's pretty much all you have. And I didn't believe in any actual person until I met Zahra. She saved my life. She didn't have to, but she did. And she started to teach me what it meant to have family. I didn't really know what that was like until I first saw you guys together. I figured there was no way that was going to happen, and then there she was, and suddenly I had a sister. Once again I realized that, at the end, life conquers all.

MARISHA: Well, you did our family a great service today, and you didn't have to do that.

WILL: Yeah. Vax would've killed me. And like I said, I believe in life– mine, above all others. He's a good guy, you know. And a hell of a warrior. A little creepy, the way he's always staring at you, but I can't really blame him.

MARISHA: You know, you're a good guy too, even though you try really hard to pretend not to be.

WILL: Don't let that get out, I got a reputation.

MARISHA: Thank you. For everything.

WILL: There is something you have to do for me, though. You got to go and kill these fuckers.

MARISHA: You actually think we can do it?

WILL: I don't really know, but I know that no one else will be able to. I hope you can. That Grog guy's fuckin' huge.

MARISHA: Yeah, he is.

WILL: Stay near him. Behind him, maybe.

MARISHA: Okay, yeah.

WILL: Or just stay near Vax. He'll look out for you.

MARISHA: And thanks for looking out for me.

WILL: Yeah, you don't suck.

MARISHA: By the way, y'know, you didn't need to apologize for stealing that kiss before, it was fine.

WILL: Well, that's good to know. It was only my second one!

MARISHA: What? Really? It was my first!

WILL: Really?

MARISHA: Yeah!

WILL: Well, between us we've had three kisses now, I think we did pretty well.

MARISHA: Aww, yeah! High five!

WILL: Oh, right!

MARISHA: Question. Who was your first kiss?

WILL: That would be my wife.

MARISHA: Oh, sure, yeah.

WILL: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, that makes sense.

WILL: (deadpan) Well, this has been pleasant.

MARISHA: Cool, yeah, no, it has been–

(laughter)

WILL: Very, very nice talking to you again. I'm glad that it's not awkward at all.

MARISHA: I– Yeah.

WILL: Okay. All right.

MARISHA: Well, I c– we should probably–

WILL: I'm going to camp across the way from you tonight, if that's all right. Just 'cause it's a little weird, so.

MARISHA: That's fine. Okay.

WILL: All right. Cool.

MATT: As you guys head back, the rest of you have gathered at the same camp set-up you had the night before. Kima– while you guys were doing this, Kima's fixed a little bit of a meal at the base and set up her own Bahamut arc of protection on the tree below where you guys are set up. As everyone gathers around, she kinda gets your attention for a moment and goes: “All right, so best that I can understand, we have most of our allies and many of the survivors at your place, right, in Whitestone?”

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: “While you're seeking most of these things, that's where the bulk of our hope resides. This is also, you say, where Allie is, and where the rest of the survivors of the Council are.”

TALIESIN: Yes, everyone. Everyone that we could save.

MATT: “Okay. Well, for the time being, I'm probably going to head there and make sure that we have defense in case any of these dragons manage to get some sort of wind that this is where their possible usurpers are. They're going to hit it, and they're going to hit it hard. Want to make sure that we have at least a decent chance of defending these people. So I figure, all strength that we can spare, beyond those that are searching for these artifacts, go and stay there at the moment. Besides, it'd be good to catch up with a few friends, myself.”

MARY: Lovely meeting you, Lady Kima. Come and find me when you return to Vasselheim.

MATT: “You're welcome to join us in Whitestone. We could use the help over there.”

LAURA: Both of you?

MATT: “I can guarantee you, probably, seeing what you guys can do today, we can definitely make use of that better over there than killing things for cash here in Vasselheim. But to each their own. Just a noble cause. Helping your friends, whatever.”

MARY: I'd have to put it to the group of Vox Machina. Is that all right with you?

LAURA: Yes! We'll meet you in Whitestone!

TALIESIN: Whitestone would be honored.

MARY: I'd be more than happy to. I'd be honored, actually.

WILL: As would I, but– damn, this is going to be awkward now. We just had the whole big thing. All right.

MARISHA: Well, I mean, we're– we'd be passing through, it'd be–

WILL: Yeah. Fair enough. We'd love to help. Just the world and everything, so.

MARISHA: Just– it'd be great, yeah. It's big. It's a big, big world.

MATT: “And, just to put this out there, and I don't mean to say this in any selfish way, but I'm really sick of sleeping in trees. Do you have one of those tree travel things you have already to Whitestone? I could really use a bed.”

MARISHA: Sure, yeah. Yeah.

LAURA: We could all head that way, actually.

SAM: To Whitestone?

LAURA: Do we need to go back, I don't know, sleep for the night?

MARY: I think we could all use some rest, don't you?

TALIESIN: We still have the Fire Ashari.

MARISHA: We do still have the Fire Ashari. Granted, I could theoretically just tree back. You guys want to go take a nap at Whitestone?

LIAM and TALIESIN: Yes.

WILL: Could use a bed.

MATT: “Great!”

MARISHA: Tree Stride.

MATT: As the tree opens– Teleport via Plants. As the tree splits open, showing the portal, Kima, whose eyes light up, looks over. “That–”

MARISHA: See? Yeah.

MATT: “Well played, druid. Well played.” And she charges through eagerly, and you guys all follow suit out of the Sun Tree in Whitestone and find yourselves a comfortable bed to sleep for the evening. And that's where we'll call tonight's game. I know it was long, but also, due to scheduling shifts and, y'know, Will couldn't stay for the next week, I didn't want to have to leave in the middle of that, I wanted to give you guys closure to the arc. So thank you for staying for a long session.

TRAVIS: Happy-one-year-anniversary extended edition.

WILL: One year. Congratulations to you guys. That's awesome.

TALIESIN: We haven't had a near-death in ages! I am so sorry! I am so sorry! Oh god.

LAURA: I had just rolled an investigation, before I could even– I had just rolled to check for traps and then you pulled the stuff.

MATT: It's only the Champion of the Goddess of Death, man.

LAURA: No, you know what? Thank you– all of you– for not–

MARISHA: (yells) What did you roll?

MATT: Huh? I rolled a 12.

LAURA: A 12, okay. What were you aiming for?

MATT: The DC starts at ten. Each failure increases the DC by one, and a success lowers it by three. So it had gone to 12, and the success had brought it down to a nine. If I had rolled an eight or lower, you'd have been gone for good.

LIAM: Would she or would I?

MATT: Well, she would've been gone for good. You would've had to have made a very serious journey elsewhere, possibly, to make that exchange.

MARY: What about Trinket?

LAURA: He survived, he didn't even go below zero on that hit. I was just already at 41, so it lowered me. He had four hit points left.

TRAVIS: The best part of that was that you were totally out of the blast range, and you were like, “I want to go be there when they open up the sarcophagus.” (explosion)

WILL: Yeah! She ran back! Totally!

LAURA: I know! No, believe me, I am aware that my greed fucking did that to me. I am aware.

WILL: Life lesson.

MARY: And will she learn from this moment?

WILL: I thought for a second I hadn't written down that spell, I was like, “Oh my god, wait, I didn't write, oh, yes, there it is, thank god.” Oh my god.

MATT: You still could've done Raise Dead, it just would've been a little more expensive.

WILL: That's crazy, though–

MARISHA: Well, I thought Raise Dead just brought them back, like, to life as a zombie, that's what I thought.

MATT: No no no, no, Raise Dead is a proper, like, resurrection-type spell. It just is really expensive, and it's a ritual, there are limitations to it. Revivify is good, but it has to be used within a minute. Which means when you used previously before and we were in mid-combat, and I didn't want to do the whole frickin' ritual in the middle of the battle, so I let it go through.

MARISHA: Because Pike got on him next turn.

WILL: That's crazy.

LAURA: Ashley was texting as it was happening. Like, “No!”

MATT: Thank you, Mary and Will, for–

TRAVIS: Thank you Mary and Will, yes!

MARISHA: And Mary, getting the “How do you want to do this?” again!

MATT: Yeah! I know, man!

MARY: I like big beasts. And I–

MATT: That was, that was a good– that was delightful overkill. That was, like six points left on that beholder. And you're like, “Oh, like 70-something.”

MARY: Look, my timing is fucking perfect, though, I always get either the Hellish Rebuke or the Witch Bolt right. It's all about timing, is all. Because he was really slashed up.

MATT: He was wrecked.

LAURA: Still.

MARY: Yeah, he was.

MATT: Guys, well done. Well, welcome back, glad we're–

TALIESIN: Never sleep again!

MATT: We, yeah, we'll see you next week. Hopefully we'll be announcing a special guest we'll have the following week, schedule barring. We'll have a guest in a couple of weeks, hopefully. Should be fun for the announcement. But guys, thank you so much for sticking with us as long as you have. And we'll see you next week. Is it Thursday yet? 

Part I

MATT: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous installments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.

LAURA: We haven't actually slept yet, then.

MATT: Nope!

LAURA: It's late.

MARISHA: What time is it here?

MATT: I'd say through the evening's travels– Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been–

MARISHA: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.

LAURA: We did?

MARISHA: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.

MATT: Yeah, you guys did camp out.

LAURA: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.

MATT: You talked.

MARISHA: We at least chilled. I don't know.

MATT: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.

TALIESIN: Keep crawling out of trees.

MARISHA: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.

TRAVIS: Should we inspect our spoils?

TALIESIN: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.

LAURA: Is Lady Allura here?

MATT: Kima, who is with you, is like, “Is she?”

LAURA: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: “Haven't heard from her since– You say Westruun was under attack as well?”

LAURA: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.

MATT: “That prideful woman.” She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, “Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her.”

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: Kima– Wait, what? Why?

LAURA: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy–

MATT: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, “I've a much bigger dragon backing me up.” And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.

TRAVIS: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.

LAURA: We'll wait, Kima.

MATT: (frustrated sigh)

LAURA: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.

MATT: “I'll wait a few days.”

LAURA: She should be here by then.

MARISHA: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.

MATT: “Okay. Not a bad idea.”

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: “Okay. I need a drink.”

MARISHA: Let's get somewhere safe.

MATT: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.

MARISHA: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.

LAURA: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here–

MARISHA: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.

MATT: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, “Great place. There's a lot of white.” Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, “Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?”

LAURA: Yes, the castle.

TALIESIN: We'll be putting you up in the castle.

MATT: “That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?” “Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle.” And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.

LAURA: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.

MATT: What is that? What is that blur of green?

TRAVIS: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!

SAM: Sorry, sorry, sorry.

LIAM: You should be.

MARISHA: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.

SAM: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.

LAURA: Right. It's a special occasion.

SAM: (sighs) So, is Allura dead?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Kima just left, so–

LAURA: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.

MARISHA: Are we heading to a tavern?

TALIESIN: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at–

TRAVIS: Corpse armor, hello.

MARISHA: Oh, corpse armor.

TRAVIS: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?

LAURA: It did kill me. According to you.

TALIESIN: It– yes.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.

LAURA: Thanks, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, “I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you– Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?”

TALIESIN: Good friends.

LAURA: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.

MATT: “Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?” Kashaw gives him a look and goes, “You don't even want to know, buddy.” Walks past him.

TALIESIN: That was a really good Kashaw.

MATT: “Very well! I assume they're staying here as well.”

TALIESIN: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.

MATT: “They'll be taken care of, Percival.”

TALIESIN: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.

LAURA: Two objects?

MATT: “This is good news.”

TALIESIN: Two objects.

LAURA: What was the second?

TALIESIN: There was a necklace.

LAURA: There was?

TALIESIN: There was.

SAM: You were dead.

LAURA: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.

MATT: “Dead?!”

TALIESIN: It's been a very long day.

SAM: Mostly dead.

MARISHA: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.

TRAVIS: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.

MATT: “So, the armor is what killed you?”

LAURA: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.

TALIESIN: Yes, the–

LIAM: What?

TALIESIN: – trap was a bit– it was a bit, ah– there was a trap. And it was well-protected.

LIAM: What?

LAURA: What, what, what? What?

TALIESIN: Yes, what.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: (mutters) He didn't know that.

LAURA: What? So these Vestiges.

MATT: “Vestiges.”

LAURA: These leathers, these things.

MATT: “Um–” And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. “Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?”

TALIESIN: Not at all.

MATT: “Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup.” So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, “This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object.”

LAURA: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.

MATT: “That's a strange name.”

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: “Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here.” And he hands it over, and– who would like to take this? Item card to–

TRAVIS: Well, you died for it, you–

LAURA: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.

MARISHA: It's leather?

LAURA: It's leather.

MATT: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.

SAM: You'll need that.

MATT: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.

LAURA: You choose which one.

MATT: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning–

TRAVIS: Acid, or necrotic.

SAM: You're, like, indestructible now!

MARISHA: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?

LIAM: It's acid-resistant.

LAURA: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?

LIAM: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: He's in such a sour mood lately.

TRAVIS: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?

MATT: “The necklace as well?”

TALIESIN: I hand it over.

MATT: He takes it, and he goes, “Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this– oh, wait a minute.” He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. “There's something inside this gem.”

TRAVIS: Uh-oh.

MARISHA: (groans) Not again.

LAURA: What is it?

MARISHA: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.

TRAVIS: It might be a worm.

LAURA: It's like tequila.

MATT: “I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but–”

LAURA: There's a being, it's a being?

MARISHA: Encased.

LAURA: Is it a soul gem?

MARISHA: Like something put it in there.

MATT: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, “This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane.”

SAM: A pocket-plane?

MARISHA: Ooh.

MATT: “It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this.”

LAURA: But something's already in there?

MATT: “Something is already in this.”

TRAVIS: Awesome.

SAM: Something that we can summon?

MARISHA: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?

MATT: “Unfortunately, I do not have that capability.”

LAURA: It was buried with–

SAM: I'll take that.

LAURA: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Well, like, you said “not too big” though, right?

MATT: “The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that.”

TRAVIS: Right, right, okay.

MATT: “Here.”

TRAVIS: Please.

MARISHA: Well, does it change size?

LAURA: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.

TRAVIS: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.

MARISHA: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?

TRAVIS: Oh, we will find a way.

LAURA: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?

LIAM: The same could be said about your new pajamas.

LAURA: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.

TRAVIS: What do they smell like?

LAURA: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.

TRAVIS: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.

MATT: “So, is that all you require of me?”

TRAVIS: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.

TALIESIN: Just what he said.

LAURA: Yeah, he already told us about it.

SAM: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to–

TALIESIN: It's a cage.

SAM: To trap people.

MARISHA: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?

LAURA: Well, let me look at my book?

MARISHA: What did he fight?

SAM: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.

TRAVIS: (laughing) No, no, no.

LAURA: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.

MATT: It's legendary.

TALIESIN: Legendary cardstock.

MARISHA: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?

LAURA: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say– Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?

MATT: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's– there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.

LAURA: Like Trinket.

MATT: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.

LAURA: (gasps) Galdric.

TALIESIN: Well, there are some options here.

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: No, that won't work, damn it.

TRAVIS: Well, say it, come on.

TALIESIN: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know–

LAURA: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it–

SAM: There's also magic resistance down there.

TALIESIN: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.

MARISHA: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.

TALIESIN: It might be an ally.

MARISHA: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?

LAURA: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Is Purvan a good guy?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!

TALIESIN: No, the Raven Queen–

MARISHA: She's like– neutral.

TALIESIN: Can I make a roll for this?

MATT: Make a religion check.

TALIESIN: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.

TRAVIS: Don't kill anybody.

LAURA: Yeah, with these green dice.

TALIESIN: Religion or history?

MATT and TRAVIS: Religion.

TALIESIN: 11.

MATT: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen: she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it– she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.

TRAVIS: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?

TALIESIN: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.

TRAVIS: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?

SAM: Correct.

MATT: After a saving throw.

MARISHA: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?

TALIESIN: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures–

LAURA: It's like a Poké Ball! Right? It's like a Pokémon?

TALIESIN: Yes, it's exactly like a Poké Ball.

MARISHA: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?

TALIESIN: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.

MATT: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.

MARISHA: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?

TALIESIN: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.

MARISHA: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.

LIAM: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.

LAURA: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.

SAM: Vasselheim? We're here.

MARISHA: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?

SAM: That would be too careful.

TRAVIS: Yeah, come on. Come on.

SAM: Vex! Just open it!

LIAM: Percival. Are there any libraries here?

TALIESIN: Not really, anymore.

LIAM: What about a personal collection in your family?

TALIESIN: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?

MATT: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge– and you've read through most of those books growing up– a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge–

TALIESIN: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot–

LAURA: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!

TRAVIS: Woods! Woods! Woods!

TALIESIN: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.

TRAVIS: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.

SAM: Plus they don't like magic.

TALIESIN: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this–

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Well, we were going to go take a look at–

MARISHA: (muffled) What if–

TRAVIS: You got shit in your mouth.

MARISHA: We g– mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.

LIAM: Goodberries?

MARISHA: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.

TRAVIS: Stone giant caves?

MARISHA: Those!

TRAVIS: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.

MARISHA: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: Is that close to your family?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MARISHA: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.

TALIESIN: It's just a couple hours away, correct?

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.

LAURA: Let's do it!

MATT: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.

TALIESIN: We can take a day and do this.

LAURA: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?

LIAM: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.

MATT: All right. So.

LAURA: We're healed, yes?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?

LIAM: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though–

LAURA: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.

LIAM: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.

TRAVIS: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.

MATT: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.

LAURA: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!

TALIESIN: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.

TRAVIS: What time is it, about?

MATT: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.

SAM: Aren't we going to sleep?

LAURA: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.

MARISHA: Like drink?

LAURA: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.

MARISHA: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?

TALIESIN: I've got some work to do.

MATT: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.

TALIESIN: I need to, yeah, to do a little– and I've got a little thing I want to work on.

MATT: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?

TALIESIN: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.

TRAVIS: Let's do that first!

TALIESIN: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.

LIAM: What're you talking about?

TALIESIN: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.

LIAM: That killed my sister.

TALIESIN: I can't say that.

LIAM: What do you mean?

TALIESIN: I was careless.

LIAM: Well, what happened, Percival?

TALIESIN: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.

LIAM: You just opened it? Just like that?

TALIESIN: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've– I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.

LIAM: All right. Could you do me a favor?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: In the future– If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box– In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?

TALIESIN: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.

LIAM: Well–

TALIESIN: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but… that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I– I couldn't–

LIAM: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.

TALIESIN: No.

LIAM: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But– And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.

MATT: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?

TALIESIN: Yeah, let's take it.

MATT: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the– for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.

LIAM: Goodnight, Percival.

TALIESIN: Goodnight, Vax.

SAM: It's four in the afternoon!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.

MATT: All right, who else wants to do something?

MARISHA: Where'd Kima go?

MATT: Kima is actually– she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.

MARISHA: Anyone else want to go to the–

LAURA: I'm going with you, yeah.

MATT: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.

SAM: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?

TRAVIS: Nothing yet.

SAM: I'm with Grog.

MATT: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern– she doesn't notice you guys.

MARISHA: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.

MATT: “Keyleth!”

MARISHA: Hey! How's it going?

MATT: “Better.”

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.

MARISHA: Want to check in on Allura?

MATT: “Let's do it.”

MARISHA: Is there an empty room around here?

MATT: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. “For how long?”

LAURA: For a couple hours.

MARISHA: Doesn't need to be that long.

MATT: “Two silver?”

LAURA: We saved your life? And the entire town.

MATT: “You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please.”

MARISHA: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.

MATT: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially– the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.

MARISHA: Just pick one.

MATT: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: Focusing on…?

MARISHA: The flower that I gave her before we left.

LAURA: Ooh, good call.

MATT: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.

LAURA: What did you see? Is she all right?

MARISHA: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.

MATT: “Good. Where are they going?”

MARISHA: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.

LAURA: Did you see the dragon?

MARISHA: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire– tower. What was it called?

LAURA: Gatshadow?

MARISHA: That one.

MARISHA: Gatshadow. Allura–

LAURA: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.

MARISHA: No, I can just look in and see.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.

MATT: “They staying in Westruun?”

MARISHA: It didn't look like it.

MATT: “Where are they going?”

MARISHA: I don't know, I didn't see.

MATT: “Did you talk about where you–”

LAURA: We left word. And told her we were coming here.

MATT: “Here to Whitestone?”

LAURA: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.

MATT: “Who else is coming?”

LAURA: Drake.

MATT: “Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?”

SAM: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our–

MATT: You're not there, you're with Grog.

SAM: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there!

(laughter)

SAM: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball?

(laughter)

MARISHA: I don't know who all's coming.

LAURA: Uriel.

MATT: “Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?”

MARISHA: His wife and children are here.

MATT: “Here, okay.”

MARISHA: As well as Gilmore.

LAURA: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.

MATT: “Right, right.”

LAURA: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still… standing.

MATT: “Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'.”

MARISHA: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.

MATT: “Anybody else? Tofor?”

LAURA: Yes, maybe…? Yes, Tofor…?

MARISHA: He might have… been… slain…?

LAURA: Which one is Tofor?

MARISHA: She's the dragonborn–

LAURA: Yes, Tofor– they did, I think Tofor is– definitely maybe here.

MATT: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him– or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family– thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.

LAURA: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.

MATT: “In the place where this– and what's this dragon you keep talking about?”

LAURA: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.

MATT: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.

LAURA: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.

MARISHA: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.

MATT: (sighs deeply) “Thordak.” And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) “I need to get some air.”

MARISHA: Kima, Kima, it'll be–

MATT: “I need to–”

MARISHA: Sit here, you want to sit down?

MATT: “I need to get s– I need to get some air.” And she storms out of the room.

MARISHA: Let's go outside.

LAURA: Actually, Keyleth–

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: I shut the door behind Kima.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: I want to talk to you.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?

MARISHA: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.

LAURA: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.

MARISHA: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.

LAURA: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.

MARISHA: We all watched you die.

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: It's like–

LAURA: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?

MARISHA: I guess… you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.

LAURA: Sit down.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: There's a bed. Sit down.

MARISHA: Percy–

LAURA: Percy helped.

MARISHA: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.

LAURA: Like we did with Pike.

MARISHA: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.

LAURA: His wife.

MARISHA: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.

LAURA: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.

MARISHA: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.

LAURA: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?

MARISHA: He– I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.

LAURA: Right.

MARISHA: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.

LAURA: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?

MARISHA: He seems to do that quite a lot.

LAURA: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I stay behind and burst into tears.

MATT: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing?

(relieved laughter)

LIAM: (Grog voice) Go fish.

TRAVIS: So– what do you want to do?

SAM: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?

TRAVIS: No.

SAM: Anything in the Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.

SAM: Doesn't sound very fun.

TRAVIS: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.

SAM: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?

TRAVIS: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.

SAM: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.

TRAVIS: Would you mind?

SAM: It's what I'm here for.

TRAVIS: Can I go drop some ordnance?

MATT: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses– none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I–

SAM: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!

TRAVIS: (coughs, then farts) Oh!

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Now, the music's playing, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: It's just a stall, just me?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

TRAVIS: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: All right.

MARISHA: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!

TRAVIS: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.

LIAM: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LIAM: And go.

(laughter)

MATT: Yes. (grunting)

SAM: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!

MATT: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second–

SAM: Ah, yup, that's tacos!

TRAVIS: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.

SAM: No problem!

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, “You fed me well.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that– do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?

MATT: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).

TRAVIS: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.

MATT: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).

TRAVIS: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like– what's in it for you?

SAM: Grog, are you talking to your shit?

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!

SAM: Okay.

MATT: The voice creeps in again, this time. “There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement–”

TRAVIS: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be… full?

MATT: “I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out.”

TRAVIS: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.

MATT: “My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere.”

TRAVIS: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.

MATT: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, “Don't forget: I hunger always.”

TRAVIS: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!

SAM: No one's out here, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh.

SAM: Just me. Are you all right?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: I heard you say something about blood.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.

SAM: At some point you said, “Are you full?” Are you talking about– did you fill it all the way up?

TRAVIS: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.

SAM: Wow!

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: You topped it off!

TRAVIS: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know–

LAURA: Foul.

SAM: Not at all.

TRAVIS: Did you want to–

SAM: I think I'm good.

TRAVIS: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.

SAM: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.

TRAVIS: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated–

SAM: We should go get a bite.

TRAVIS: I think you're right!

SAM: (laughs) All right, let's go.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Okay.

MATT: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.

TALIESIN: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: Should be plus 11.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you–

TALIESIN: I've got a thing.

MATT: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.

TALIESIN: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.

MATT: Like a siege arrow?

TALIESIN: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.

MATT: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.

TALIESIN: I have nothing else to do.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.

TALIESIN: Okay. So… That's 23.

MATT: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the–

TALIESIN: No, I've got an okay workshop here.

MATT: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and– in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.

TALIESIN: Siege arrow.

MATT: And we shall find out in time what it does.

MARISHA: Siege arrow. That's fun.

TALIESIN: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.

MATT: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?

LAURA: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.

MATT: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you–

TALIESIN: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.

SAM: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?

MATT: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?

SAM: Three.

MATT: Three torches. That's three copper.

LAURA: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.

MATT: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.

LAURA: It's hard, it's hard.

MATT: It's rough, being a bear.

SAM: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?

MATT: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.

SAM: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?

TRAVIS: Absolutely not.

SAM: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.

MATT: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. “Can I– you!”

SAM: Yes! Hi!

MATT: “Hi!”

SAM: I've come back.

MATT: “I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?”

SAM: The town, you mean.

MATT: “Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you.”

SAM: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived–

MATT: “It's just the canvas, I don't have a– It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but–”

SAM: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?

MATT: “Yes, yes! Come, come!”

SAM: Can I look?

TRAVIS: Oh please, oh please!

SAM: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!

MATT: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze–

SAM: How's the face? How's the face?

MATT: The face is pretty damn spot-on.

SAM: Yes!

(laughter)

MATT: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train– longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistic point of this– it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.

SAM: I'm going to request– Grog, I need a minute here.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. I understand, take–

SAM: Just to weep.

TRAVIS: Take all the time you need.

SAM: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished–

MARISHA: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?

MATT: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.

SAM and TALIESIN: (singing) Somewhere out there…

TRAVIS: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.

SAM, TALIESIN and MARISHA: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight

TRAVIS: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.

TALIESIN: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.

MATT: Oh, man.

(laughter)

SAM: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.

MATT: “That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so.”

SAM: I'll get right on it.

MATT: “Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole.”

SAM: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.

MATT: “Great.”

SAM: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.

MATT: “I, um–”

LIAM: That's more than the price of a book.

MATT: “Sir, I– thank you. Thank you, thank you.”

SAM: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.

MATT: “Of course.” He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. “Thank you–” Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. “Thank you.” And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.

SAM: So, can it be–

MATT: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you– (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.

SAM: Grog! Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Can you hold this for me?

TRAVIS: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it–

SAM: No, I can't do it.

TRAVIS: I don't know it– I really–

SAM: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!

TRAVIS: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.

MATT: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on– Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?

LIAM: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute–

LAURA: Vax? Is that you?

LIAM: And I stealth away.

LAURA: I open the door.

MATT: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.

LAURA: Shit.

LIAM: 25.

LAURA: 22. Damn it.

MATT: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.

TRAVIS: He's good.

LIAM: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.

MATT: You hear a knock at your door.

LAURA: And horses.

MATT: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.

MARISHA: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?

LIAM: I don't know.

MARISHA: Come in. Sit down.

LIAM: I go in.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: How do you feel?

LIAM: I don't know. All I know is… that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.

MARISHA: Do you still feel her?

MATT: Make a perception check, Vax.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.

LIAM: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.

MARISHA: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.

LIAM: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.

MARISHA: Can I?

MATT: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration–

MARISHA: Just lay back.

MATT: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.

MARISHA: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.

LIAM: Keyleth, I love you.

MARISHA: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.

LIAM: I quickly leave her room.

MATT: The door closes behind Vax.

MARISHA: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Stop it, you're wasting water.

MARISHA: We're in a drought, god damn it!

LAURA: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?

MARISHA: It's been a while.

TALIESIN: Makeup's runny.

LIAM: Go water elemental.

MATT: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.

TRAVIS: I lose my strength bonuses.

MATT: Morning comes to you all, and– yes?

LIAM: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.

MATT: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute.
Break

[break]
Part II

LIAM: Matt, shit on my face.

MATT: Welcome back, everybody!

SAM: It's too close!

LAURA: They caught it, that one caught it.

MATT: That was pretty close.

LIAM: All they heard was “ace.”

MATT: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?

TALIESIN: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.

LAURA: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.

LIAM: I'm awake.

LAURA: Oh, good morning.

LIAM: Hi.

LAURA: Comfortable bed, I see.

LIAM: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.

LAURA: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.

LIAM: What time's it?

LAURA: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.

LIAM: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.

LAURA: It's not like I did it on–

LIAM: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Fuck.

LAURA: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.

LIAM: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.

LAURA: So– (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.

LIAM: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?

LIAM: That's random. All right.

LAURA: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi–

LIAM: I don't want it.

LAURA: Oh, that was expensive cardstock.

(laughter)

LIAM: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.

LAURA: All right. I love you.

LIAM: (softly) I know. I know.

LAURA: Let's get breakfast.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat–

MARISHA: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?

MATT: Are you putting on the armor?

LIAM: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.

MARISHA: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.

LIAM: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.

MATT: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.

LAURA: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.

MARISHA: I walk by and… briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, you got the armor now?

LAURA: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.

TRAVIS: Nice.

LAURA: Yeah. Fair and square.

LIAM: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.

TRAVIS: Oh, you need all the help you can get.

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?

TRAVIS: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?

SAM: I do.

TRAVIS: Oh! Yeah!

SAM: Don't worry, it's safe.

TRAVIS: Where d'you keep it?

SAM: Oh! Hold on– Got a pouch or some– you know what? It's back in my room.

MATT: All right. You go retrieve it.

SAM: Got it!

TRAVIS: Where's Percy?

LAURA: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.

SAM: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!

LAURA: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.

SAM: I can heal!

TRAVIS: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?

LAURA: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.

TRAVIS: Where's Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm right here.

TRAVIS: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.

TALIESIN: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.

TRAVIS: Need any coffee? An enema?

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: A coffee enema?

TALIESIN: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.

LIAM: I'm going to walk off with this shit.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And we go outside with the necklace.

SAM: Yeah, where're we headed?

TRAVIS: The woods!

LAURA: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the–

MARISHA: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.

MATT: Yeah. It's the caves that are–

MARISHA: Going to go through the woods.

LIAM: (sings) Into the woods!

MATT: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.

LAURA: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)

MATT: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.

LAURA: I like it.

MATT: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?

LAURA: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: What about sirens?

LAURA: Sirens?

TRAVIS: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?

MATT: Harpies?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, whatever.

LAURA: Sure! Harpies.

MATT: For how many miles is it?

LAURA: Six miles!

MATT: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.

LAURA: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.

MATT: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: How's it look?

LAURA: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.

TRAVIS: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!

MATT: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?

TRAVIS: Fortress or cave?

LAURA: Were they both empty? I don't remember.

TALIESIN: Everything was empty, if I recall.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Small space.

TALIESIN: Let's do the caves.

LAURA: All right, sure. Cave.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Cave.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.

SAM: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.

TRAVIS: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.

MATT: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.

LIAM: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.

SAM: All right, fine, fortress.

MATT: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.

SAM: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!

LAURA and MARISHA: Wait wait wait!

MARISHA: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?

SAM and TALIESIN: We're in a fortress.

MARISHA: Fortress. Whatever.

MATT: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.

LAURA: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?

MARISHA: Should I throw a wall up?

SAM: A wall for what?

MARISHA: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?

TALIESIN: Vex, by the way–

MATT: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.

LAURA: Aww, put it on, it's useful!

LIAM: No. We're not having this conversation.

TALIESIN: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.

LAURA: What? Yes, dear?

TALIESIN: And I pull out the arrow.

LAURA: What is this?

TALIESIN: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.

LAURA: Breaking hearts left and right?

TALIESIN: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.

LAURA: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: That was much nicer than your brother.

LAURA: Is that a black eye?

TALIESIN: (stammering) I didn't sleep.

LAURA: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.

TALIESIN: There'll be more.

SAM: All right, in three, two–

TRAVIS: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!

TALIESIN: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.

LIAM: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,

SAM: On the one. On one.

TALIESIN: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.

SAM: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?

LAURA: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.

TALIESIN: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.

LIAM: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?

LAURA: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.

LIAM: That's a big if.

TRAVIS: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.

LAURA: Yeah yeah yeah!

LIAM: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.

TALIESIN: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.

LAURA: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.

SAM: It can see me.

LAURA: I'm going to stealth.

SAM: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.

LIAM: Yes, we're going to hide.

MATT: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?

MARISHA: So we're going to try and talk to it?

LAURA: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.

MARISHA: Scanlan? You prepared?

LAURA: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.

MATT: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.

LAURA: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!

TRAVIS: Is there a doorway in the fortress?

MATT: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two–

TRAVIS: Can I stand in that, then?

MATT: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.

TRAVIS: Vax, is this g– Vax?

TALIESIN: It's fine, you're fine.

SAM: Here we go, guys.

MARISHA: So, those two are stealthed– I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.

LAURA: And Trinket's next to you!

MARISHA: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.

TALIESIN: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.

MATT: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.

SAM: I don't know how to use this thing.

MARISHA: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.

SAM: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.

MATT: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)

SAM: Easy, easy.

TRAVIS: Told you it was a dog.

SAM: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.

MATT: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).

LAURA: Trinket, be nice– oh!

MATT: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.

LAURA: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!

MARISHA: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.

MATT: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is– it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.

SAM: Is it a small beast?

MATT: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.

SAM: I can only speak with small beasts.

MARISHA: Wait, use Speak with Animals?

LIAM: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.

MATT: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.

LAURA: Aw.

LIAM: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.

MATT: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)

LIAM: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.

TRAVIS: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?

LAURA: Can I use my perception?

MATT: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.

LAURA: Can I sneak?

MATT: Yeah, make another stealth check.

LAURA: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.

LIAM: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.

LAURA: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?

MATT: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.

LAURA: Hey, it doesn't?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Can I see it better now to perceive it?

MATT: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.

TALIESIN: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.

MATT: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.

SAM: Animal handling! We've never done that before!

LAURA: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?

MATT: Probably.

LAURA: I help him put on the armor.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!

LAURA: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.

MATT: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, “Here, boy.” (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be– That's a 21 to hit?

TALIESIN: I'll take it.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?

MATT: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.

TALIESIN: Gently, I'm gentle with it.

MARISHA: I cast Speak with Animals.

LIAM: I click my Boots of Haste!

MATT: You do?

SAM: Aren't you getting dressed?

LAURA: He can dress faster!

TRAVIS: Speed change.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Quick change.

SAM: Seven-and-a-half minutes!

(laughter)

MATT: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.

LAURA: The rustle of feathers.

MARISHA: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?

MATT: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)

MARISHA: Was Purvan your master?

MATT: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.

LAURA: Trinket totally understands you, no?

MATT: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).

TALIESIN: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.

TRAVIS: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?

MARISHA: Oh my god, I get a secret!

SAM: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out.

(laughs)

LAURA: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.

SAM: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.

LAURA: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he–

SAM: Is there a ring or something?

LAURA: Is the ring still available?

SAM: I don't know.

LAURA: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!

MARISHA: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.

LAURA: I push Vax forward.

MATT: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on.

(laughter)

SAM: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?

MATT: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.

SAM: Nice.

LIAM: I still walk toward the wolf.

TALIESIN: Waddle.

LIAM: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!

MATT: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.

MARISHA: I continue to speak to the wolf.

LIAM: And I kneel. And bow my head.

MARISHA: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan–

LIAM: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Yes?

LIAM: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.

LAURA: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.

LIAM: Tell him.

LAURA: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.

MARISHA: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.

LAURA: Give him some chocolate, man!

MATT: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.

MARISHA: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.

MATT: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.

LIAM: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.

MATT: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.

SAM: Where who is?

MATT: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.

LAURA: (whispers) What's his name?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Galdric.

MARISHA: Galdric!

MATT: Keeps walking.

LAURA: Galdric!

SAM: Going to stop him, Grog?

TRAVIS: Well, I'm in the doorway.

MARISHA: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.

LAURA: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.

MATT: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).

LAURA: Wait, wait, Trinket– This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!

MATT: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks–

LAURA: I throw the treat and say, hey!

MATT: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.

TRAVIS: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge–

TALIESIN: No!

TRAVIS: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!

MATT: Make an animal handling check.

LAURA: Whoa, is it good, is it good?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.

TRAVIS: Stay.

MATT: He sits.

TRAVIS: That went well!

(laughter)

SAM: Dog whisperer!

TRAVIS: Good pup.

SAM: Are you its master now?

TRAVIS: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?

TALIESIN: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.

LAURA: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.

TALIESIN: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a– Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.

LAURA: Good, yeah! I like it!

TRAVIS: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.

LIAM: Where did we get that?

TRAVIS: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.

MATT: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its–

TRAVIS: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?

MATT: Oh yeah, no, it's–

TRAVIS: It'll soften up the dry food.

LIAM: Gray Chicken McNuggets.

MATT: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.

LAURA: It'll make the wolf vomit.

TRAVIS: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it.

(laughter)

SAM: Wolves love getting drunk.

MATT: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.

LAURA: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.

TRAVIS: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.

LIAM: Forget the chocolate.

TRAVIS: I need to carry beef in this bitch.

TALIESIN: It goes bad.

LIAM: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?

LAURA: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.

TRAVIS: Oh! That's really good to know.

TRAVIS: I pour into a little chalice some ale.

LAURA: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.

MATT: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.

SAM: We should keep some food on hand next time!

LAURA: Totally!

TRAVIS: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.

MATT: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.

TRAVIS: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.

SAM: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?

TALIESIN: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.

LAURA: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.

SAM: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.

LAURA: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.

TRAVIS: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.

MARISHA: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.

TRAVIS: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.

LIAM: I'm peeling that off as we walk.

LAURA and TRAVIS: What?

TRAVIS: No!

LAURA: Leave it the fuck on!

LIAM: I'm peeling it off.

LAURA: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?

LIAM: I'm peeling it off.

LAURA: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.

MATT: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?

LAURA: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.

LIAM: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.

SAM: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: You're a funny man.

MATT: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.

TRAVIS: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?

TALIESIN: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him–

LAURA: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.

TALIESIN: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.

LAURA: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.

MARISHA: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.

SAM: We should find some food for the thing, too.

MARISHA: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?

LAURA: No, he'll probably attack you.

TRAVIS: He'll mount you.

LAURA: Or he'll bone you.

TALIESIN: I'm not ready for that game.

SAM: Do it.

TRAVIS: Let's be clear.

(laughter)

LAURA: Matt's like, “mm-mm.”

LIAM: Oh, you soured the DM.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: To be fair, that's happened before.

LAURA: Yeah, I remember.

TALIESIN: With the troll.

TRAVIS: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?

TALIESIN: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?

SAM: I don't know.

TRAVIS: Who was getting humped on?

TALIESIN: I don't remember.

SAM: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.

MARISHA: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.

LIAM: Yes.

SAM: She's the alpha.

LAURA: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.

MARISHA: You want a task? I'll give you one.

MATT: All right. How long does Speak With–

MARISHA: I don't know.

MATT: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.

MARISHA: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?

MATT: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.

MARISHA: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.

MATT: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.

MARISHA: With advantage?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: I'll take the– what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.

MATT: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, “I'll listen if you give me a task.”

MARISHA: He talked back.

LAURA: Have him guard the village.

MARISHA: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude–

LAURA: Just fucking tell him to do it!

MARISHA: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard–

SAM: It's a command.

MARISHA: – the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, repeat after me.

MARISHA: Yes.

TRAVIS: In exchange for food, protect these lands.

MARISHA: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile–

TRAVIS: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.

MARISHA: Patrol these lands.

LAURA: Protect these lands.

MARISHA: Protect these lands.

TRAVIS: (quietly) Holy shit.

MATT: “For how long?”

LAURA: (laughs) He already asked that.

MARISHA: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want–

LAURA: As long as we need you to.

TRAVIS: No, no. A great danger approaches.

TALIESIN: Until the danger has passed.

TRAVIS: You'll know it when it comes.

MARISHA: (clears throat) A great danger–

LAURA: Approaches!

MARISHA: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger–

TALIESIN: Has passed.

MARISHA: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect–

TRAVIS: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?

MATT: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, “I can feed myself.”

LAURA: Yeah, you can.

MATT: “But I will watch until this danger has passed.”

LAURA: Awesome.

MATT: “Then am I free to go?”

MARISHA: Then you are free to go.

MATT: “Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long.” And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.

LAURA: Bye, buddy!

MARISHA: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.

LAURA: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.

MARISHA: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?

TRAVIS: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You did good, you did good.

SAM: I thought she did very well.

MARISHA: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.

LAURA: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?

TALIESIN: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.

SAM: The thing that can capture evil.

TALIESIN: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?

TRAVIS: Me.

LAURA: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?

SAM: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.

TRAVIS: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.

TALIESIN: It's automatic, and no time passes.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Hey, buddy, come here.

MATT: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.

LAURA: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.

MATT: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.

TRAVIS: Got a carrot on your chin.

LAURA: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.

TALIESIN: Just point, yep.

LAURA: I point to him with the–

SAM: You should probably say something cool.

LAURA: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon.

(laughter)

MATT: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.

LAURA: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?

MATT: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.

LAURA: Oh, it's a little crystal?

LIAM: Trinkachu, I choose you.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?

MARISHA: I think you– yeah.

LAURA: I release you.

MATT: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.

LAURA: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.

MATT: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.

LAURA: Well, that's not good.

MARISHA: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.

LAURA: Ask him how he's doing.

MARISHA: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?

MATT: “Feeling sick.”

LAURA: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.

MARISHA: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was–?

MATT: “Yeah?”

LAURA: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.

MARISHA: What was it like in there? Was it–?

MATT: “I don't remember.”

MARISHA: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind–

LAURA: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.

MARISHA: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion.

MATT: “If she wants me to, okay.”

LAURA: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.

MARISHA: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.

LAURA: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.

MATT: You do, and avoid the little bit of–

LAURA: –vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.

SAM: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.

LAURA: I know, it's great!

TALIESIN: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MARISHA: Oh my god, you're right.

TALIESIN: It's very convenient.

LAURA: Oh my gosh. Okay.

MATT: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.

SAM: Where are we going next?

MATT: Where are you going now?

TALIESIN: Your home, I imagine.

LAURA: Don't we need to–oh, yeah.

SAM: What's our to-do list?

MARISHA: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.

TALIESIN: Fire Ashari it is.

SAM: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?

LAURA: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.

SAM: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.

LAURA: Grog's family.

SAM: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?

LAURA: No, but that's down–

TALIESIN: That's far.

MARISHA: That's the other Vestige, correct?

LAURA: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.

MATT: That's information about the Vestiges.

SAM: We need to steal an airship.

TALIESIN: I agree, that's still very important.

TRAVIS: I can't remember where, what–

LAURA: They were by Kraghammer.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.

SAM: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu– where's Ki– where's people?

LAURA: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.

TRAVIS: What's close to here? (hiccups)

TALIESIN: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.

MARISHA: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.

TRAVIS: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.

TALIESIN: Fire Ashari is the next–

LAURA: We should go to the Fire Ashari.

MARISHA: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.

MATT: (bear noises)

LIAM: That's two of us.

MARISHA: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?

LAURA: (laughs) Do you need some water?

MATT: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.

TALIESIN: Take it.

SAM: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?

LAURA: Yeah, let's get some meat.

MATT: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.

SAM: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?

MATT: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.

SAM: How much is that?

MATT: I'm going to look that up right now.

SAM: All right, whatever, I've got it.

TALIESIN: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.

MATT: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.

MARISHA: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?

LAURA: He does.

LIAM: I do.

LAURA: Put it on.

MARISHA: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.

TRAVIS: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'

MATT: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.

LAURA: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.

MATT: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.

SAM: Can that stabilize people?

MATT: If used with a medicine check, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.

TALIESIN: What is that?

LAURA: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.

TALIESIN: What does it do?

LAURA: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?

TALIESIN: I'm pretty reasonable.

SAM: Do I wear robes?

MATT: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.

SAM: No thanks.

LAURA: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?

SAM: Missile snaring? What does that do?

LAURA: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.

TALIESIN: Does it require attuning?

MARISHA: They're pretty sleek.

LAURA: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.

TALIESIN: Yes, but does it require attuning?

LAURA: Yes it does, it requires attuning.

TALIESIN: I might be attuned out at this point.

LAURA: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.

SAM: I think I can take it?

TALIESIN: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very– actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.

MARISHA: Are you fully attuned?

TALIESIN: I can undo something that I'm not using.

MARISHA: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?

TALIESIN: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?

MATT: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.

MARISHA: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.

SAM: Eh.

TRAVIS: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?

MARISHA: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.

TRAVIS: Are those bad?

TALIESIN: Eh.

MARISHA: They're annoying

TALIESIN: As long as we're quick we can go about it.

MARISHA: Well.

SAM: What's our mission?

TRAVIS: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of–

MARISHA: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.

TRAVIS: Allura or that bearded dude.

MARISHA: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: We can go and look for survivors–

LAURA: And bring them here.

MARISHA: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.

LAURA: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?

TRAVIS: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.

LAURA: They've been there for a while already.

MARISHA: If there are survivors–

LAURA: Then they're surviving.

MARISHA: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.

TALIESIN: I know you don't want to go.

MARISHA: I really don't.

TALIESIN: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.

LAURA: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.

TALIESIN: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.

MATT: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?

TRAVIS: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.

MATT: That would be a question more for Percival.

TRAVIS: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.

TALIESIN: Sure.

TRAVIS: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

TRAVIS: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.

TALIESIN: I don't feel that way about you.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: I mean, you're very attractive.

TRAVIS: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like….

TALIESIN: Oh, where you get your freak on!

TRAVIS: Yes.

TALIESIN: Yes. Yes, we have them.

TRAVIS: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?

TALIESIN: Oh, I imagine so.

TRAVIS: Could you point me in that direction?

TALIESIN: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?

MATT: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been…

TALIESIN: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.

TALIESIN: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.

TRAVIS: Well, my, my, indifference

TALIESIN: I know you do.

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: You're wonderful.

MARISHA: Can I start telling that to people in real life?

TALIESIN: Yes you can. I do it all the time.

MARISHA: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.

TRAVIS: Okay. I'm going to rest.

SAM: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.

MARISHA: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.

TALIESIN: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.

TRAVIS: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.

LAURA: That's next.

TALIESIN: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.

SAM: All right, let's knock it off.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.

LIAM: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'll help you make the potions.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.

LIAM: And one's nearby, to pass through?

MATT: About a ten-minute diversion.

LIAM: I'm splitting off from the group.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: We've got to get out of here.

LIAM: One's in front of me now?

MATT: Well, you find your way to– it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.

LIAM: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.

MATT: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)

LIAM: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.

MATT: (ting) He looks over at you. “If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords.” (ting)

LIAM: What's the difference between the two that I can see?

MATT: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.

LIAM: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.

MATT: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, “Hey.”

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: “You're going to pay proper for that shortsword.”

LIAM: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?

MATT: “12 gold pieces.”

LIAM: My apologies. 12?

MATT: “12 gold pieces, friend.”

LIAM: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.

MATT: “It's all right. No harm no foul.” Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. “Have a good day.”

LIAM: I walk down the street going like– it's big.

MATT: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all–

LAURA: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.

LIAM: I don't need your dagger.

TALIESIN: We're going to make our potions?

MATT: Yes, yes. All right, so.

MARISHA: I have another question.

MATT: What is your other question?

MARISHA: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?

TALIESIN: There's really not a lot of it.

MARISHA: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?

LIAM: Wise as fuck.

LAURA: Or in the morning.

LIAM: Heroes' Breakfast.

MARISHA: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.

MATT: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the– because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.

LAURA: I have a plan, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yes?

LAURA: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.

MARISHA: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.

SAM: How about the wolf?

TALIESIN: So potions.

LAURA: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people–?

MARISHA: Yeah, sure, why not?

TALIESIN: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.

LAURA: Yeah, it is.

TALIESIN: And tampering with it is definitely…

TRAVIS: Necessary.

TALIESIN: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.

LAURA: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.

TALIESIN: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.

LAURA: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.

TALIESIN: I feel like it was more than that.

LAURA: No, it was just 500.

LIAM: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?

TALIESIN: He's not there.

LAURA: Isn't he, though?

TALIESIN: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.

LAURA: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.

LIAM: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.

TALIESIN: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.

LAURA: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?

TALIESIN: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.

LAURA: You're right. They're taking on so many people.

TALIESIN: And we'll see what we can do.

LIAM: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.

TALIESIN: Always fucking hear you in my mind.

LAURA: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.

TALIESIN: We're busy making potions.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?

MATT: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.

TRAVIS: Pick one.

TALIESIN: Pick one.

MARISHA: I'll do a damn feast.

TALIESIN: No potion?

MATT: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.

MARISHA: All right, okay. Yeah.

MATT: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.

TRAVIS: Sure.

MATT: Yes, no?

TRAVIS: Say one, just say one.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.

MATT: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.

LAURA: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.

MATT: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you–

LIAM: Fuck!

MATT: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.

MARISHA: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.

MATT: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.

MATT: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.

MARISHA: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan– ooh, I rolled a natural 19.

MATT: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.

MARISHA: Just one?

MATT: Just one.

MARISHA: Fire.

MATT: It takes a long time, man.

MARISHA: Fire!

MATT: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.

LAURA: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.

TRAVIS: Seriously.

SAM: Keyleth, could you–

MARISHA: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.

SAM: Could you make me some tea real quick?

MARISHA: Scanlan.

SAM: What?

MARISHA: Go fuck yourself.

SAM: What, you were up before me, I thought–

TALIESIN: All right. All right, this is fine.

MARISHA: This is fine.

TALIESIN: This is good.

MARISHA: This is great.

MATT: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?

MARISHA: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!

LAURA: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!

SAM: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?

MARISHA: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.

TRAVIS: Man, it's hard being a druid.

LAURA: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?

MARISHA: Pike. Pike. Pike?

SAM: She's with Gilmore.

TRAVIS: She's not here.

LAURA: (sighs) I miss Pike.

LIAM: We all miss Pike.

MARISHA: I'll cook breakfast, guys.

LAURA: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.

LIAM: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.

MATT: What's the plan?

MARISHA: I'm cooking breakfast!

MATT: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.

LAURA: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?

MARISHA: I'm summoning– yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.

LAURA: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.

MATT: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.

LAURA: Froot Loops!

MATT: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?

TALIESIN: Lucky Charms.

MATT: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.

LAURA: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!

MATT: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.

TRAVIS: Damn!

SAM: Advantage on wisdom.

MATT: Yes, the usual.

TRAVIS: Almost broke.

MARISHA: And wisdom.

LAURA: And you're immune to fear, right?

MARISHA: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?

MATT: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.

MARISHA: Yay!

MATT: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.

LAURA: Let's go, let's go, let's go.

LIAM: Wait! While they're sleeping, right–

MATT: Mm-hmm?

LIAM: I take Scanlan aside.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oi.

LIAM: Hey, buddy.

SAM: Hey, friendo.

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: What's up?

LIAM: We don't talk a lot.

SAM: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually.

(laughter)

LIAM: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.

SAM: It's okay. I walk away.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh, shit!

SAM: Then I come back, I feel bad.

TALIESIN: No, no, that was perfect.

LIAM: Where did you go?

SAM: Just kidding, just kidding.

LIAM: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.

SAM: I'm already as low as I can go.

LIAM: You're right. How do you do it?

SAM: How do I do what?

LIAM: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?

SAM: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.

LIAM: We're probably going to die in the next month.

SAM: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.

LIAM: All right. Thought I might–

SAM: Glean some wisdom?

LIAM: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.

SAM: Listen, I'm older than you.

LIAM: How much older?

SAM: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.

MARISHA: Oh god, that works on too many levels.

TALIESIN: Oh god, that's too deep.

MARISHA: Too deep.

LIAM: You did that. Water under the bridge.

SAM: I walk away.

LIAM: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.

MATT: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Let's do this.

MATT: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.

MARISHA: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.

MATT: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?

MARISHA: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.

MATT: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.

MARISHA: Oh, do we gain a few hours?

MATT: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.

MARISHA: Awesome.

MATT: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you– it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?

MATT: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.

MARISHA: Do they look like people, like humanoids?

MATT: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.

TALIESIN: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.

MATT: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.

SAM: How far?

MATT: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.

MARISHA: 800 feet?

TALIESIN: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?

MATT: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.

TALIESIN: I don't know who these people are.

MARISHA: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?

MATT: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.

TRAVIS: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?

TALIESIN: We should.

MARISHA: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.

LAURA: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MATT: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.

TRAVIS: You don't want to put him in the thing?

SAM: You could.

LAURA: (gasps) Okay.

LIAM: Try it out.

LAURA: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.

MATT: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.

LAURA: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.

MATT: All right, so you take it, you put–

SAM: It has a chain and a string now.

MATT: Chain and string.

MARISHA: The string's so you don't forget.

MATT: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17.

SAM: Pass Without a Trace is–?

TRAVIS: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.

LAURA: 30.

LIAM: 35.

MARISHA: 32.

TALIESIN: 29.

SAM: 25.

MATT: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?

MARISHA and TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.

MARISHA: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.

MATT: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?

MARISHA: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.

MATT: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of– sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and–

LAURA and MARISHA: Those are druids.

MARISHA: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I write–

LAURA: “So, how are you guys doing up there?”

TALIESIN: “Hi.”

MARISHA: “Hi. Hey you guys.” I write, in druidic symbols, “Keyleth, Kaitiakè.”

SAM: What's that? Is that her?

MATT: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, “Kaitiakè. Survivors remain, Keyleth.”

MARISHA: And I respond with, “Help has arrived.”

SAM: You guys are texting?

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah.

MATT: Druid texting.

LAURA: What are you saying?

TALIESIN: Stop looking at your phone.

LAURA: What do they say?

SAM: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?

MARISHA: They're survivors.

TRAVIS: Well, let's go.

LAURA: Are they nice?

MARISHA: They're survivors. What does it matter?

TRAVIS: And we go.

MARISHA: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, “Arriving. Stand down. Here we come.”

TALIESIN: “Lol.”

MARISHA: “Lol. Winky-face.”

LIAM: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.

MATT: You did don it. Okay.

LIAM: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.

MARISHA: Oh you did, okay.

LIAM: And I press it into Vex's hand.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.

MATT: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: Oh, shit.

LAURA: A constitution?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?

TRAVIS: No, that's only wisdom.

LAURA: Shit.

LIAM: Come on, Colville meteorite die.

TRAVIS: 17.

LIAM: I'm so weak.

LAURA: Come on, jade.

LIAM: Natural 20!

LAURA: You motherfucker!

LIAM: Thank you, Matthew Colville.

LAURA: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.

TRAVIS: Way to announce it.

LAURA: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.

TRAVIS: (laughs) You're fucked.

MARISHA: 20.

TALIESIN: 13.

SAM: Five.

MATT: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the– because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.

LAURA: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.

TALIESIN: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.

MATT: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Levels of exhaustion suck.

SAM: Not saving.

MATT: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping–

MARISHA: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.

MATT: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.

MARISHA: Oh shit!

TRAVIS: From who? From what?

LIAM: What's the matter?

LAURA: What's up? What's happening?

MARISHA: I run up.

MATT: Keyleth goes running up.

MARISHA: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?

MATT: There are five from Zephrah.

LAURA: Are we going to, we're going to follow?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.

TALIESIN: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.

LAURA: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.

SAM: Yeah. You can carry me.

TALIESIN: Cardio. God.

MATT: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, “Hail, Keyleth.”

MARISHA: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.

MATT: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.

MARISHA: And I look back at him and I say: I'm so sorry.

MATT: “This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see.”

MARISHA: Are these all that have survived?

MATT: “We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago.”

MARISHA: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?

MATT: “We helped seal a drake in this rift.”

LAURA: Thordak.

MATT: “That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough.”

MARISHA: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.

MATT: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, “So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?” And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. “My god. Keyleth.”

MARISHA: Who are you?

MATT: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. “You live.”

MARISHA: Dad!

MATT: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.

MARISHA: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.

MATT: “Shh.” He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. “Keyleth, you've grown.”

MARISHA: A lot's happened.

MATT: “You look just like her.”

MARISHA: I haven't found Mom.

MATT: “Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours.” He wipes the tear from your face and says, “How goes the Aramente?”

MARISHA: Well.

LAURA: She's kicking ass.

MATT: “Good. Good.” And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. “We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get.”

SAM: How can we be of assistance?

MATT: “Come. See what remains of Pyrah.” He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.

MARISHA: Daddy.

MATT: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. “Yes?”

MARISHA: It's good to see you again, father.

MATT: “It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned.” Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. “You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come.” As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.

LAURA: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?

MATT: “Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks.”

LAURA: Well, that I have.

MARISHA: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.

MATT: “This is good. Because that's who we need right now.”

MARISHA: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?

MATT: “I will do what I can.”

MARISHA: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?

TRAVIS: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.

MARISHA: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: Scanlan?

SAM: Hit me, babe.

MARISHA: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you–?

MATT: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.

MARISHA: Can only have one person going.

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: Well, good.

MARISHA: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?

TRAVIS: I'll take a mulligan on this one.

MARISHA: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.

LAURA: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.

SAM: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.

MARISHA: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.

LAURA: What does a potion of fire resistance do?

LIAM: Halves.

LAURA: The same thing?

LAURA and MARISHA: Halves all fire damage?

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.

MARISHA: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.

MATT: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.

TRAVIS and LAURA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.

LAURA: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.

TALIESIN: Cry more, cry more!

MATT: You knew this was coming.

LAURA: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.

MARISHA: I'm so tired. I'm tired.

LAURA: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.

SAM: Yeah, that's not great.

LIAM: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.

TRAVIS: Where we take shits and talk to swords.

LAURA: There you go.

MATT: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got–

TALIESIN: Wild animals.

LAURA: Yeah, so many things!

MATT: And a travel method for Trinket.

LAURA: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!

MATT: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: How is he going to be here?

TALIESIN: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.

TRAVIS: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.

LIAM: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.

TALIESIN: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.

MARISHA: Super busy, but I'm super successful.

LIAM: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.

MATT: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.

LIAM: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.

MATT: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.

TRAVIS: 12, 12:30.

LIAM: 12:37.

TALIESIN: On a 7AM call.

MATT: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.

MARISHA: 826 Seattle! We love you.

MATT: And yeah. Do we have anything else?

ALL: Happy St. Patty's Day.

LAURA: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.

LIAM: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.

MATT: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye! 

Part I

MATT: All righty. So. Let's go ahead and jump into this wondrous–

TALIESIN: Oh, god.

MATT: So, to get you guys a little bit up to speed with some of the fun that's happened previously on Critical Role, our band of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, after having a horrible encounter with the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of chromatic evil dragons that has just torn through the Tal'Dorei countryside, destroying cityscape after cityscape, the party has fled and has been seeking information on how to possibly eventually topple these creatures and restore order to the land of Tal'Dorei. They began seeking these artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence that promise ancient power from wars long past that could aid them in this journey. After acquiring one, with a near-death experience by Vex'ahlia over there, they began their next step in the journey. However, as part of a recent scrying spell by Keyleth, the druid, they discovered that the Pyrah tribe of her druidic heritage, the Ashari, were decimated as their home of Pyrah was the portal to the fire elemental plane that they normally guard, was where Thordak the Cinder King, the great red dragon, tore through into this prime realm and managed to seemingly wipe out most if not all of the tribe. Vox Machina made the relatively grim journey back to the mountainside, finding it now brimming with volcanic rock and volcanic activity that previously lay dormant. Upon climbing the side of the mountain, you found remnants of the Pyrah tribe still alive, and making their way up the mountain, as damaged as they are, in hopes of sealing this now progressively swelling tear between the prime material plane and the elemental plane of fire. Not just that, there was aid that came to the Pyrah tribe. And it involved a number of Air Ashari, one of which was Korrin, Keyleth's father. There was a brief, tearful exchange and reunion before the rest of you, steeling yourselves, began to walk in towards the center of the mountain's caldera, towards the remnants of the Cindergrove, the now-destroyed and sundered petrified forest, in hopes of closing this rippling tear to the elemental plane once and for all. And this is where we begin. So. The group of the six of you, gathering alongside the dozen or so Pyrah members, with various burns, Cerkonos, who is the leader of the tribe, now missing his arm, cauterized at the shoulder, all advancing forward quietly in this tense push of necessity. You can see in the distance, swirling between the trees, clusters of glowing elemental entities that are either spilling forth from this recently and have taken this landscape as their own, or are just enjoying in their– elementals like to burn shit. And so you're seeing fire elementals wandering about, just tearing through what remains of this countryside, and let's see, you actually, Vex'ahlia– as you guys are stepping forward, keeping an eye on these glowing distant entities, these creatures, you catch out of the corner of your eye what appears to be a number of other humanoids, a small cluster of shadowed individuals far off to the left, tucked around the bottom of a tree.

LAURA: I ask everyone to wait. Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: Can you look through your scope and see who that is?

TALIESIN: I'll take a look.

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: First roll.

TALIESIN: Ooh. That's not bad.

(eerie music)

LAURA: The music.

LIAM: The violins go south.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 23. Glancing over in that direction, you see, towards one of the larger, broken petrified trees, right on the outskirts of the Cindergrove forest, you see what appear to be a cluster of humanoids. Two of them have flesh. The other two do not. These skeletal creatures shuffle in place, clutching a blade to one side, while the other two appear to be in partially rotted states. They're mostly disinterested in their surroundings and stand there, head to the side, aimless–

TALIESIN: Are they in the clothing of the natives, or do they not look to be Ashari?

MATT: From what you can tell, one of them does appear to have Ashari wardrobe. The other one does not.

TRAVIS: – he said in a weird way.

TALIESIN: They look undead. Doesn't–

LAURA: Are they from here?

TALIESIN: Possibly. One looks vaguely familiar, but there's something wrong. We should proceed– let's go up and find out what's happening. Slowly, and armed.

MATT: At this point, Korrin, Keyleth's father and the head of the Air Ashari in your absence, puts his hand forth and goes, “I'm sorry, you're saying that you see along the way undead creatures.”

TALIESIN: Yes. There's something unnatural over in that direction. We should probably be the ones to investigate.

MATT: “All right. Given the nature of the elemental presence here, we're going to have to probably divide and attack the central place from multiple positions, otherwise they're going to have too strong of a fire-front at the edges of this border. Do you feel confident enough to handle your own sliver of this assault?”

TRAVIS: (scoffs and laughs) Is he serious?

MARISHA: Grog. I believe we can handle it.

LAURA: We don't have a lot of magic wielders with us, though.

MATT: “That's all right–”

SAM: (clears throat) I'm pretty good.

LAURA: A lot of magic wielders.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're better than good, buddy.

TALIESIN: You're okay.

MATT: “Well, we'll keep an eye out. We'll have two of our druids overhead, keeping eyesight. If anything goes wrong, signal up there. You know how, Keyleth. And we'll send them down to aid you. All right.”

LAURA: Sounds good.

MATT: “The air Ashari will come from the northeast. Cerkonos, take the rest of your tribe, head from the west. You, continue on forward. If this troupe you've found of seemingly lifeless entities looks even remotely dangerous, do not engage. They are not our target. But if this is a scourge that has spread into the Cindergrove, I fear we may be in worse shape than I had originally envisioned. Regardless, stay silent, stay swift.” He looks back to the rest of the Air Ashari, and all of them, their outer form shimmers as the wind begins to collect around their feet, ever so quietly, and they all with an intense speed begin to trek at an incredible pace, seemingly blending in with the rock surroundings as they go, disappearing around one side of the Cindergrove forest. Cerkonos and the others nod. Cerkonos looks to the rest of you, brings up his one hand and gives a touch to the top of his chest and sternum and bows his head and goes, “I wish you all great luck. See you on the inside.” And the rest of the fire Ashari turn into burning fire elemental forms and begin to streak through the various broken rocks and pieces of glass-shattered obsidian that peppered this landscape in the caldera, leaving the six of you ready to trek forward yourself.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, can you do that?

SAM: Ah, no. No, and I don't think I could learn.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: Perfect. So.

MARISHA: Let's go.

LAURA: Avoid the skeletons?

MARISHA: Avoid the skeletons.

TALIESIN: Let's take a look, at least.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: We're supposed to make sure they're not part of something larger that's heading in–

LAURA: They're in the way, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Did you not just hear my father–

TALIESIN: He said if they don't bother us, to leave them alone, but that we should just check to make sure that they're not part of something.

LAURA: Are they in the path at all, do they look like they're going to be near us when we go?

MATT: They look like, wherever you're traveling– because there's an open expanse of about 80 or so feet before you actually reach the edge of the Cindergrove, and they're right on the outskirts of the Cindergrove forest, so lest you're very careful, they would technically see you if they're paying attention.

TRAVIS: Yes!

TALIESIN: Tread gently and see if they react.

MARISHA: Do you have Pass Without a Trace, Vex?

LAURA: I do. But, Keyleth, the minute we start fighting, they will notice us, and then they'll attack us from behind.

TALIESIN: So it would be best to get their attention now when everything's quiet.

MARISHA: We also don't want to waste all of our abilities on undead.

TALIESIN: There's only two, maybe four of them.

MATT: There's four of them.

LIAM: That we see.

MARISHA: Why don't we just tread that way, and we'll see what happens.

TALIESIN: That's exactly what we're saying.

SAM: What could happen?

LAURA: I guess I use Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

TALIESIN: You did.

MARISHA: Did we already have it?

LAURA: Did we already have it? From last time?

MATT: As long as you're maintaining your concentration, how long does it last for? Concentration? I believe it–

LAURA: It holds for up to an hour.

MATT: An hour, yeah, so you can still be under that effect.

LAURA: Sweet.

MATT: So I would like all six of you to roll stealth checks for me, if you could.

TRAVIS: With triple advantage?

MATT: No. Just the plus ten. Which is better than advantage.

MARISHA: Triple advantage.

TRAVIS: 25.

TALIESIN: 30.

MARISHA: 28.

LIAM: 38.

LAURA: 30.

MATT: 38–

SAM: 14.

(laughter)

MATT: With plus ten?

SAM: With the plus ten.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Incredible.

SAM: Tra-la-la-la-la.

MATT: So as the entire group bends down into a ninja-like stance, just darting across as fast as they can, keeping low to the ground and using much of the shadow of the overhead clouds and smoke that has completely engulfed the above skyscape, behind you, bounding very loudly, is a gentle gnome, swishing brown hair–

SAM: I'm trying to do that thing that the Ashari just did.

MATT: Right. It's not working.

LIAM: Hot, hot, hot.

MATT: And as you're darting across, you're jumping over little open globules of molten lava that is starting to pour out from various crevices in the stone floor, you try to hop around to avoid that, and in doing so, your foot catches the edge of a piece of stone, and you begin to go into a tumble. Make an acrobatics check.

SAM: Oh, yes. Mm-hm. Oh, disadvantage, because I'm exhausted.

MATT: You are.

LAURA: Oh, shit. I forgot about that.

LIAM: The honest gnome.

SAM: Okay. 14.

MATT: (laughs) You do manage to catch yourself, with a slight tumble, skid a bit on your ass, and land on your feet. It would've been a cool three-point landing if anyone else had attempted it, but you just barely catch yourself, look back at the group with a sheepish grin, and out of the corner of your eye, you see one of the undead entities turn its head and look right in your direction.

LAURA: (whispering) Good job, Scanlan.

SAM: (whispering) I think it saw Grog.

TRAVIS: Sorry.

MATT: It starts wandering in your direction.

SAM: Should we engage or keep going?

MARISHA: I'm afraid if we engage, it could draw attention to an entire slew of what could be around.

TALIESIN: Let's just put it down quietly.

MARISHA: All right, Jesus Christ.

TALIESIN: No magic.

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: Just weapons.

LAURA: No guns.

TALIESIN: No guns. I pull my sword.

MARISHA: Vex, you might be the most capable of this.

LAURA: I shoot it with an arrow.

MATT: All right, roll for an attack.

LAURA: Okay. Just going for it. Okay.

TRAVIS: Wow.

LAURA: I'm literally, I think I cursed myself sometime between here and San Francisco.

TALIESIN: The d20s talk to each other and they know that you're not true.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: Can I attack on her heels when she's done?

MATT: At this distance, it'll take a little bit to rush up if you want to–

LIAM: 60 feet.

MATT: I'll say at this point they're roughly 60 feet from you, so if you wanted to–

LIAM: That's my distance.

MATT: Oh, if you go full speed, you can.

MARISHA: Daggers.

MATT: Oh, throwing it.

LAURA: 15 damage.

MATT: 15 damage. On which one, the skeleton or–

LAURA: Oh, that's sneak attack, right? Because I'm hidden.

MATT: It would be from you, yes. The–

LAURA: Extra two.

MATT: What? Extra two. Okay. Is this against one of the zombies or one of the skeletons?

LAURA: I was doing the one that was walking towards us, I thought the other ones were still in the area–

MATT: All right, then that would be one of the zombies.

LAURA: Yeah, okay.

MATT: All right. The arrow streaks through the air, slamming into the chest, and it embeds itself, causing a piece of tendon to snap and curl back inside the torso. Its arm falls a little more limp than it was previously, and it just keeps walking forward.

LAURA: I hide.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll a stealth check. You–

LIAM: They're all grouped together?

MATT: Three of them are grouped together by the tree. The one that noticed is slowly wandering toward you.

LIAM: All right, so I'm going to throw at that one as well.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 39. Stealth.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: I'm just going to throw one, and just to check, I'm hidden, yeah?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: So this is Assassinate, I have advantage because it hasn't gone yet, and it's a crit because I'm surprising it.

MATT: Mm-hm.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: 25. With that, as this zombie entity is hobbling forward, the dagger strikes it right in the center of the skull, right where its mouth and jaw hinge hit, severs the base of the skull to the spine, and the head just rolls off onto the ground underneath. The body takes two more steps before falling forward.

LAURA: Yeah, do they all– did any of the other ones notice that?

MATT: All the other undead creatures all of a sudden turn into the forest, as opposed to towards where the death happened–

LAURA: Ah, shit.

MATT: And you see running out from the forest towards you, a blue-skinned humanoid, rushing out, arms in the air.

CHRIS: (in an Irish accent) Stop, stop, stop what you're doing! Stop it! What have you done? What have you fucking done? It wasn't hurting anybody! I don't understand it. Jesus Christ, these are not easy to make.

TRAVIS: Are we killing this one?

SAM: No, no, don't kill him, he's precious.

CHRIS: What did I do?

SAM: Who are you? Who are you?

CHRIS: Who are you, you're fucking shooting at me, you're asking me questions!

SAM: But these are zombies, these are undead, these are creatures of evil!

LAURA: They were attacking us, they were attacking him!

CHRIS: These were in my employ.

SAM: Oh.

LAURA: Well, you should keep a leash on them, then.

CHRIS: That would be inhumane, wouldn't it?

SAM: They're not human.

CHRIS: Well, they were, that's very disrespectful of you, I don't appreciate it.

LIAM: Are they pets? Are they friends? Where were you–

CHRIS: They're friend-pets.

LIAM: You have to be around, though. To keep an eye on them.

CHRIS: I know, but I've been traveling out here for a while, and so they provide a layer of protection. Certainly not great now. Now they were four, now there's three.

LIAM: Well, listen, when we see these things without an owner around, we take them out, I'm sorry, it's pretty standard.

SAM: This can't be the first time this has happened.

CHRIS: It does happen quite a lot, actually, yes. Now that I think about it, it's probably a little bit on me, I suppose.

SAM: Can you make them vests or something that says 'service'?

CHRIS: That's a nice idea, as I'm a vest-maker.

LAURA: Put them in a bright color, put a happy mask on them or something, so people know they're nice.

CHRIS: Certainly, yeah, yeah, masks and vests, that's a great idea.

MATT: You see agreeing before you a blue-scaled dragonborn. If you would like to describe yourself for the party.

CHRIS: Yes, sorry, I forgot. Where are my manners? My name is Gern Blanston.

SAM: No, it's not.

CHRIS: It's Gern Blanston.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

CHRIS: This one's very rude.

TRAVIS: He is.

CHRIS: You look exhausted.

SAM: This volcano– do you live near here? This volcano really takes the piss out of you.

CHRIS: No, no, no, I don't live near here. Listen, I've been traveling, I'm a simple candlemaker.

SAM: What are you doing on top of a volcano?

CHRIS: A volcano is nature's candle! What a stupid question.

LAURA: You make candles, but you also make undead?

CHRIS: Yes. They're– yes. They're like people-candles.

LAURA: Can I insight and see if he's telling the truth?

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Our lives are so bizarre now.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. He's telling the truth.

CHRIS: Why is my brain tingling? Is someone noodling around inside there?

MATT: She eyes you up and down, trying to get a feel for whether or not you're who you say you are.

CHRIS: I make special candles. I make special candles. I'm searching for some magical items up here in this volcano. I understand there was a wee bit of damage not long ago from a dragon that had torn through the region, and so I'm just searching for scraps to make these simple candles. That's why– this is my dance vest. I think dancing is very important. I'm alone most of the time, it keeps me occupied. They have no appreciation for the arts, these undead creatures that are friend-pets, and, you know, I've just been digging around up here, seeing what I can scrounge up and find. What are you lot?

TRAVIS: Wait, are they special candles or are they simple candles?

CHRIS: Well, some are simple. Some just create light, and others create tragedy for people.

SAM: They're magical candles?

CHRIS: Yes, in a word. Actually, magic is the perfect word.

MARISHA: Who exactly is the patronage of your candle business? Who do you sell to?

CHRIS: I mean, I sell to no one in particular, really. I have to be a little choosy about who gets the candles, but it's something that I've crafted over the years.

SAM: Well, we feel dreadful about killing one of your pets.

MARISHA: I'm so sorry.

SAM: Perhaps we can purchase a candle off of you to make amends.

CHRIS: Well, maybe you could just kill someone else, and then I could just bring them back, I mean, that would be a wonderful way to repay.

LAURA: Well, you know what, we're on our way to do just that thing.

CHRIS: Really?

MARISHA: Things do tend to die around us a lot.

TRAVIS: Something larger things, sometimes smaller things.

SAM: Would you like a body to reanimate or something?

MARISHA: You might get something even bigger.

CHRIS: Are you inviting me to come along with you?

SAM: I don't know. Are we?

CHRIS: Did I just invite myself to come along with you?

TRAVIS: Well maybe, like, if you give us one of those tragedy candles, we can always light it for somebody. That could be good down the road.

MARISHA: Oh, like candles for funerals? That's sad. We do have a lot of tragedy.

TRAVIS: We bake somebody a cake, we shove a candle in the top, and we give it to them.

CHRIS: I don't think that would be a grand idea unless you didn't like the person very much.

TRAVIS: Well, that's what I meant, yeah.

CHRIS: Well, I think for now I'll just hold onto the candles I have and just see how things pan out. I really don't know any of you.

SAM: We're Vox Machina, a traveling band of adventurers led by me, Scanlan Shorthalt, and these are my compatriots. We're on a very important mission to get– what are we doing?

MARISHA: We're trying to close this giant rift that we're walking into.

SAM: We have to break something big and scary.

CHRIS: What's your name again?

SAM: Scanlan Shorthalt.

CHRIS: No, what's the name of your group?

LAURA: Vox Machina.

CHRIS: No offense, but that sounds like a shite band.

LAURA: Thank you.

CHRIS: Are you musicians?

TALIESIN: It's better than Tragedy Candle, really, I mean that's a shite band, to be fair.

CHRIS: (laughs) They opened for Vox Machina. They were fantastic. Oh, am I not thinking of the right thing? That's all right.

SAM: I'm a musician.

CHRIS: Excellent.

SAM: But these people, they can't really hold a tune so much.

CHRIS: Listen, seeing as how that you've killed one of my undead thralls, it'd be really nice if I could join you to see if maybe we can scrounge up some other things along the way.

LAURA: Then you'll help us?

CHRIS: I mean, we'll see how it pans out, but I feel like everything would come to an abrupt ending if I just walked away at this point.

LAURA: It would be very strange.

CHRIS: Thoroughly unsatisfying for anyone else who might be witnessing this exchange.

SAM: Your undead pets, are they going to try and eat our brains or anything?

CHRIS: No, no, they're just fine. That right there is Coral, and that's Stimpy, and that's Fatty Arbuckle.

SAM: Who was the one that we killed?

CHRIS: Oh, that was Carol. Very sad, very sad indeed.

LAURA: Carol and Coral?

CHRIS: Carol and Coral. I get them confused.

MARISHA: Were they sisters?

CHRIS: No, no, no, they were not initially related, but we became a makeshift family after a while.

SAM: Oh, that's very beautiful.

CHRIS: I notice subtle differences that most of the living doesn't notice.

TRAVIS: Aren't we supposed to be doing something really like–

LAURA: Yeah, tell you what, Gern, we're actually–

LIAM: It's dangerous around us, I don't know–

LAURA: We should probably press on, and you can join us with your family.

CHRIS: Please, that would be very nice.

TRAVIS: What was your name, one more time?

CHRIS: Gern Blanston.

TRAVIS: Yeah, okay.

CHRIS: Gern.

TRAVIS: Well, let's go, let's move along then, Gern, yeah? You good to come along with your herd of–

SAM: Can you fight and stuff in case shit goes down?

MARISHA: If you make magical candles, you must know a little bit of magic, correct?

CHRIS: I'm a little bit better of a spellcaster than I am a fisticuffs type of person.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Perfect. We're short on magic people. That's wonderful.

CHRIS: Excellent. No offense.

SAM: All taken.

TRAVIS: We move along.

LAURA: Are we still trying to stealth? Or does it even matter?

LIAM: Your dead things don't stealth, I would assume?

CHRIS: They're not very delicate, unfortunately. No, no, they're really for protection. Now, the zombies can really take a lot of damage to the front of the chest and the skeletons are quite quick, actually. So, you know. They've been fairly good for a while.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: Good to know.

LAURA: We head towards the thing.

TRAVIS: Stealthily.

CHRIS: To the thing!

TRAVIS: Shush! Stealthily.

CHRIS: (whispering) To the thing!

MATT: Go ahead and make a stealth check, if you don't mind, Gern.

LAURA: Does my Pass Without a Trace work on him too, does it like envelop him–

MATT: Nope. He wasn't there when you cast it.

CHRIS: 11.

TRAVIS: Fuck.

MATT: 11?

TALIESIN: He's not under Pass Without a Trace.

MATT: No, and then– No. As you guys begin stealthily, there is a couple of (footfalls) heavy footfalls of the lumbering dragonborn.

CHRIS: These old dragon feet–

MATT: No tail on this one.

SAM: What happened to your tail?

CHRIS: Please don't ask me about that.

SAM: Okay, I won't.

MATT: The only other dragonborn you've seen without a tail was the paladin that worked in the Council. Tofor Brotorus. So, that does catch your attention a little bit. Not just the dragonborn lumbering, but now the three undead that are (groaning) stepping behind.

LAURA: They're worse than Trinket, Scanlan.

MARISHA: I don't know. I don't know if stealth is going to be a thing, going forward.

TALIESIN: (whistling)

TRAVIS: Yeah! (whistles)

LAURA: Okay.

CHRIS: Sorry, these dragon lips can't whistle. Mostly just fire comes out.

MATT: And it's at that point you hear the cracking of what sounds like heavy timber, no more than 30 feet away from you. You all stop in place suddenly and you glance over and you can see the flickering of light of what appears to be a flame-based elemental energy that's tearing over the side of a newly fallen petrifoid– petrifoid– (mocking Chris' accent) petrifoid tree, look what you've done to me! This is your fault!

TRAVIS: Gern, son of a bitch.

CHRIS: Purple hearts, green stars! Purple hearts.

SAM: Seen some shit.

CHRIS: Special veteran's edition of Lucky Charms.

MATT: Very, very Lucky Charms.

CHRIS: Very Lucky Charms.

LIAM: Shit.

MATT: So!

TALIESIN: Well, that got dark.

MATT: Yeah, how about that?

LIAM: Back to normal, then, eh?

TALIESIN: Yeah, okay.

MATT: So. As the flame begins to trickle and burn over the edge, you can see there is an intelligence to it. There are a couple of arms that writhe over the side and the head pops over and glances, and stops in place, frozen, staring over in the direction of the bounding dragonborn.

MARISHA: It's a fire elemental?

MATT: It's smaller than what you're used to seeing, but it is indeed a creature made of elemental flame.

MARISHA: Would he be considered a primordial?

MATT: It would be considered an elemental.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to go fire elemental.

MATT: Okay. So you're using your transform–

MARISHA: Seeing it, I'm going to transform and go into my fire elemental.

TRAVIS: Is this the first time you've done that?

LAURA: No no, she's done that.

MARISHA: Is this the first time I've been fire elemental?

MATT: I think it's the first time you've been fire elemental, yeah?

LAURA: Really?

MARISHA: Yeah, learned from Cerkonos, yeah.

MATT: So, you guys watch as Keyleth's form suddenly erupts into flame, which freaks you out for a second, as you're uncertain as to whether or not she did that.

TRAVIS: Keyleth! Are you all right?

MARISHA: In fire elemental, just like–

LAURA: Does it still look like Keyleth or– what does it look like?

MATT: It has for a moment, an essence of Keyleth's more lithe form that most elementals would, but still these long, curling flame like-arms, these eyes that glow a bright white fire in the center of the face. Other than that, relatively formless other than what looks like where her hair would be, these wisps of flame curl up behind her.

LAURA: Pretty freaking sick. Can you talk to it?

MARISHA: That's what I'm going to go do.

MATT: So as you approach the elemental form–

MARISHA: So I approach and I'm going to do the animal instinct thing and poof up and make myself a little big.

MATT: The creature behind the form, you can see, is drifting away from the trunk of the tree.

MARISHA: Oh, it's running from me?

MATT: It's turned away and is moving away from you, yeah.

SAM: That was easy.

MARISHA: Deuces. And I roll back.

LAURA: I thought we were supposed to keep them from coming out into this world.

MARISHA: Are we– wait. Are we in the fire plane yet?

MATT: No no, you're just– you're in the caldera to–

MARISHA: Oh, we're in the caldera.

MATT: Yeah, you haven't traversed the plane. You're making your way into the remnants of the Cindergrove.

LAURA: Maybe you should ask it to go back.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to say “Halt!” in Ignan. Which I'm assuming it speaks.

MATT: You guys hear in the distance this echo of this weird sucking-crackling sound that goes– It halts for a second, looks over its shoulder and then goes into double speed, disappearing into the trees. Away from you.

TRAVIS: Kind of following your lead here.

MARISHA: I follow after it and I say, in the name of the guardians of this realm, you will stop!

MATT: Okay, as you follow it past the initial treeline, it's where a bunch of trees have fallen over and formed a small blockade in this portion of the forest. You glance over as you're shouting that and you can see what appear to be another of the same small elemental that this one has gone to, to have a brief conversation. Beyond that, you see a larger one, roughly your size, that has just turned around and noticed your presence, and all of them look over at what appears to be another humanoid creature, but instead of a lower torso of legs, it's an elongated snake-like body, its black and red scales across its entire form, two human arms and a humanoid face but these webbed red spines down its entire back.

SAM: Gern, is that one of yours? That's you, Gern. Gern.

CHRIS: No, I don't know who this is. I don't– I'm not familiar. I'm not familiar with who this is.

LAURA: I take my potion of fire resistance.

CHRIS: I could send them a present in the form of a candle, if you prefer.

LAURA: Do it.

MATT: At this point in time, Keyleth, as you're standing there, looking over this edge, they all turn and the creature, the weird– I'll say it– a salamander-like creature, begins shouting out phrases in Ignan, which you understand. It says, “Go! He's not here yet! Alleviate this uncontrolled one!” At which point, they all begin to swarm towards you.

MARISHA: At which point I'm going to do a fire intimidation tactic. I'm going to do a fire radial thing. And I'm going to say, as the leader of this realm, as the Kaitaki of the Fire Nation, you will heed my word.

CHRIS: Quite dramatic, isn't she?

MATT: As you guys are watching this from a distance, all you hear is (guttural noises). It's really confusing and a little hilarious, to be honest.

LAURA: I think it's going well.

MATT: I need you to make an intimidation check.

MARISHA: No, that one fails me a lot.

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure it fails you.

MATT: What you got, Keyleth?

MARISHA: It does! Shut up, Travis. Natural 20!

TRAVIS: Ha. Thought I made a point.

MATT: All right. As this happens, the two smaller elementals shrink down and glance over at the larger one. The larger one looks about and shouts back at you in Ignan, once again: “Do you serve him?”

MARISHA: It doesn't matter who I serve, for I am above him. I am your master now. This is not your realm. Get back into the fire plane. Where you came from.

MATT: He looks back at the long snake-like humanoid who's standing there who glances at the other one and goes, “She wants us back. Very well.” And they all turn around and begin to slowly drift back towards the center of the Cindergrove where the flickering light was.

MARISHA: Holy shit.

LAURA: Good job, Keyleth!

TRAVIS: We don't know what happened, why are we clapping?

LAURA: They're turning around, they're heading back in that direction!

MARISHA: I fly back over to them, still in fire elemental form–

LIAM: Whoa whoa whoa!

MARISHA: And I'm like: You guys! Did you see that! It was really crazy! Did you see? Did you see? They think I'm their leader! They think I'm their god!

TRAVIS: Is she talking in normal, or is she talking in the (flickering flames).

MATT: (flickering flames)

TRAVIS: Yeah, no idea what you're doing or saying.

LAURA: You're very scary right now, dear.

CHRIS: Is she going to be sick?

TRAVIS: I think so. I might have to tackle you if you don't calm the fuck down.

MARISHA: I chill out. I chill out, I can't revert back, though, guys, because I want to stay in this.

MATT: So the fire elemental is just like (calm whoosh). And it's more of a smoldering sad elemental at the moment.

MARISHA: I give them a fire thumbs-up.

MATT: There you go. Strong sad elemental.

LIAM: First word. Two syllables.

TRAVIS: So, they're going back. Do we move on?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah. Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm going to take off, leading in my fire elemental form, deeper towards the rift. Keeping my eye out for any elementals that might be escaping.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: This is her game.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but it's on fire.

MATT: Go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.

LAURA: What?

CHRIS: 18.

MATT: Okay. Vex, make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Roll high.

LAURA: Pressure!

TALIESIN: Use one of your good dice.

LAURA: Perception.

LIAM: And roll bad.

LAURA: Shut up.

TALIESIN: Should've used the good dice.

LAURA: 30. No. 28.

MATT: 28?

SAM: Yep! Wait, are you exhausted?

MATT: Yeah, you are.

LAURA: On everything?

MATT: Skill check. Roll again.

LAURA: No, even better!

TRAVIS: Even better.

LIAM: So it's the earlier.

MATT: So it's the earlier one, yeah. Okay. You just see, as you're all just walking along, your new blue dragonborn friend just reaches down and snatches something from the dirt, pockets it and keeps walking.

LAURA: I follow behind him and keep watching him. Can I see what it was?

MATT: You have no idea. You just see a little cluster of ash and dust on the ground that's been partially disturbed. All right. As you continue to press forward, you hear in the distance a loud cracking sound echoing, and you can see what appear to be a number of trees in the far-off side to the northeastern side of the forest, as a brief whirlwind flickers up. You assume this is probably from the Fire Ashari, who've taken that side of the entranceway, and you can see two flickering lights drift up in the air before sparking out in the distance.

TRAVIS: Ooh, really?

LAURA: Should we let them know we're in place, then?

MARISHA: I'll throw up a Skywrite. Or actually, as a fire elemental, can I just be like (fire flares) in fire elemental form?

MATT: I mean, you can make some localized fire happen.

MARISHA: Can I send up a little bit like a flare?

MATT: Not in the way you would want to, you'd have to drop form for that and cast a spell.

MARISHA: Fuck.

LAURA: I'm going to set an arrow on fire and shoot it up in the air.

MARISHA: I don't realize she's doing it.

MATT: Okay. As you go ahead and take the arrow– What do you have around the edge that are going to– are you just going to light the shaft on fire?

LAURA: No, I'm going to tie some of my cloth from– you know– that I have– The thing.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: I take some cloth from the Bag of Holding, from one of those old fancy cloaks that we have.

TRAVIS: Better ask first.

LAURA: (sighs) Seriously?! Can I have some of the fancy cloak? Grog, out of the Bag of Holding, please?

TRAVIS: Oh, are you hot right now? It's so weird.

LAURA: Jesus Christ. Please.

TRAVIS: Oh, all right. Fancy cloak.

MATT: There you go. The arrow arcs off. Vanishes across the little bit of the remaining treeline.

LAURA: No idea if they saw that.

MATT: All right. Do you guys continue to press forward?

MARISHA: Hold for a second. And wait for Team Three's response?

SAM: There's a third team?

MARISHA: Right, there's a third team. Three teams, right?

LAURA: All the other teams already responded. We were the third.

MARISHA: Oh! One, two, we were three. Okay, yeah.

MATT: Okay. You begin to push further forward towards the center of the Cindergrove, as you're noticing more and more of these trees are pushed flat. It's almost like that Russian forest the meteor had landed in and exploded; all the trees are flattened–

CHRIS: Tunguska.

MATT: Think Tunguska, thank you. Where you begin to climb over a number of these flattened portions of the forest, and in the center you can see that one river of molten rock that had been trickling down the front of the mountain is sourced here in the center, where once previously you guys had performed a ritual to pass into the elemental plane, has now torn into this extremely bright rift that flickers. It's like looking into the sun, you have to avert your gaze; you cannot look directly at it without actually hurting your eyesight. And you can see, there are multiple paths of this molten lava, pouring out from this new volcanic activity. You can see it burbling up and bubbling underneath, like the very presence of this tear itself is causing the activity to just raise and grow more fervent. At the base of the rift, you can see a number of other elemental creatures that are in the process of surrounding this opening– (door creak)

MATT: – and you can– Everything all right, Ryan?

RYAN: I am not here.

MATT: You're not here, okay?

SAM: You don't know.

MATT: I don't know.

CHRIS: You guys see him too?

MATT: Perfect. As you can see, all these elemental entities are swirling around. There are two more of these strange, snake-like humans, these salamander-like creatures that are discussing, and one really large one that stands there holding this strange trident-like structure, and it's shouting out commands left and right, and you can see these salamander entities and a number of these elementals are all gathered around the portal, and they're all just focusing this slow, steady beam towards it. And as you can see it tearing, flickering and slowly expanding with each popping expansion of this doorway, the ground itself shifts and rumbles.

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark the big one.

MATT: All right.

CHRIS: Can I send a candle?

MATT: If you'd like to, yeah.

CHRIS: All right, what am I looking at, here? Fire? There's a bit of fire?

MATT: There's a lot of fire. Most of these entities are either fire essence or just made out of straight flame.

CHRIS: I'd like to call over the skeleton known as Fatty Arbuckle. I'd like to give Fatty Arbuckle an Ice Storm Candle.

MATT: All right.

CHRIS: And ask him to kindly deliver it to the center of this melee that's happening just up ahead.

SAM: Won't that kill your friend?

CHRIS: Oh. He's had a good run.

TALIESIN: I'm feeling a lot less guilty, suddenly.

CHRIS: Well, I can do it! What I don't appreciate is when other people do it.

SAM: That's fair. That's fair.

CHRIS: You know, it's my choice. Never said it was okay for you to start lighting them up with arrows. Jesus Christ, whoever that is.

LAURA: I'm Vex'ahlia, nice to meet you.

MATT: Fatty Arbuckle, skeletal claws clasped around the side of this marbled-looking, bluish-white candle, and clutches it and just goes (snarl).

CHRIS: Yes, off you trot, go!

SAM: You don't have to demean him as he goes.

TALIESIN: I was really hoping for a Fatty Arbuckle skeleton impression. I was really, really hoping for it. What you did was cool, but like, that was just my heart.

CHRIS: They can't speak. They don't have voice boxes or anything.

MATT: As it shuffles forward, down this ashen pit towards the dome where the lava itself is beginning to pour forth and the doorway is, you can see the shadow of its form as the light passes. It looks like the cover of The Thing, how it's just bright light coursing past this dark image of the skeleton, walking away from you.

LAURA: Maybe we should duck down, so that nobody knows where that came from.

CHRIS: Oh, yes, get ten feet back, I should've said that already.

MATT: It's walked quite a distance, thankfully, at this point. It's probably a good 40 or 50 feet before it reaches the first salamander. And you see, as it begins to step forward, they all turn and look, and one of them shouts over (snarling). One of them glances over, reaches out and pulls out a long, brass-colored longbow and begins to notch an arrow carefully, as it hobbles forward. They look at each other. One of them shouts out in Ignan, which you understand, Keyleth, shouting, “You! Who walks here?” Just keeps walking forward like a little wind-up toy made of bone. Until eventually, the one with the bow gives a nudge with its head, and the other salamander entity draws a heavy-bladed object and begins to step forward towards it, ready to go ahead and cleave it. As the skeleton steps forward, it gets right at the corner of its range. Do you want to command it?

MARISHA: I feel like Helen Hunt in that moment in Twister.

CHRIS: Squeeze the candle, Fatty Arbuckle!

MATT: At which point, the skeleton, just as the blade sweeps past and crashes into its torso, shattering the rib cage, the arms go (crack). The wax bends and cracks in the center, and there's a brief pause where nothing seems to happen. And a swirl of sudden, localized storming blizzard just encases a ten-foot radius, hitting both of those salamander creatures. What does it say on the candle specifically?

CHRIS: On the Ice Storm Candle. All affected must make a dexterity saving throw, DC 12, or suffer 4d6 cold damage.

MATT: That's a fail and a save. And it's half damage on success?

CHRIS: Half damage on success.

MATT: Great. Okay, so one of them failed and one of them saved. So go ahead and roll 4d6 damage.

TRAVIS: Dang. I think that's a good way to start.

CHRIS: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Oh boy. Three, six, nine.

MATT: Nine? Okay, nine and five cold damage to each. So (bang) it blasts open. Oh, and a dexterity check for your buddy, who makes it! So, Fatty Arbuckle actually walks out of there with a mere five points of cold damage.

LAURA: Nice, Fatty!

MATT: Out of ice and frost. His busted-open rib cage, though, he did suffer…

LIAM: Super duper!

TRAVIS: Putting on the Ritz!

MATT: Did suffer seven damage from the impact of this weapon. So Fatty Arbuckle, pretty damaged, but still standing there just going (snarling).

CHRIS: Keep standing, Fatty, you can do it! I love you, Fatty!

MATT: Is everyone just going to sit back at this, or–?

LAURA: No, we should probably attack.

MATT: It's up to you. Or you can watch this horrible bludgeoning of this skeleton in the teeth of death.

TRAVIS: When I see the salamander take out the big, shiny sharp thing, I go into a rage.

LAURA: I hide.

MATT: All right. Travis, I assume you're going to be rushing in there, then?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Anyone who wishes to immediately go into battle now, let's roll initiative.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm in on this.

MATT: All right. Let me go ahead and–

SAM: For Fatty!

MARISHA: So these are all fire elementals. Should I continue–

TALIESIN: Oh, hell yeah.

CHRIS: Ah, nice.

LAURA: Should we roll for stealth again, or are we still stealthed?

CHRIS: I was just shouting at a skeleton.

LAURA: Oh, I know, I was trying to hide, though. Like, back away from you as you were doing that.

TRAVIS: The candle turned into a blizzard, so. Ooh!

TALIESIN: Is it a candle, though? It's like a thing, like there's no–

LIAM: And I mean, Gern was shouting.

TALIESIN: It's a candle the way the wheelie things are hoverboards. I think it's weird.

CHRIS: And they also catch on fire. They also explode.

MATT: All right, so this is quite a ways away from the portal itself. Lava flow traveling around that side.

TALIESIN: Oh, look at that!

MATT: All right, and we have Keyleth over here as the fire elemental.

LAURA: You're at the portal.

MARISHA: Huh?

LAURA: That's okay. We're all going to die.

TRAVIS: No.

TALIESIN: Where's the big one?

MATT: The big one that you haven't seen yet?

LAURA: The big one that I Hunter's Marked.

TALIESIN: That one. The one holding the tridenty thing.

MATT: Oh, sorry.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: Whoa. Look at how pretty those lava bubbles look!

SAM: Is that Gern?

MATT: That's Gern right there.

We have Fatty Arbuckle.

TALIESIN: Fatty!

MATT: And chilling over here, we have Coral and Stimpy.

TRAVIS: What is that crater? Is that just a crater?

LIAM: I think that's the portal they were trying to–

SAM: So these are fire elementals, yes?

MATT: They seem to be fire-based creatures, yes.

LIAM: Hey, DM!

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: You said they were ripping open the portal? Where is that on the map?

MATT: It's back, it's this far back.

LIAM: Way back, okay.

TRAVIS: That crater's just a crater, though?

MATT: Yeah. There is a pool of magma that goes this way. You guys are on one side of it, and pushing this way further, the rest of the actual portal's back this far. All right. So, initiative order, we have 25 to 20, anyone?

SAM: 22.

TALIESIN: 27.

TRAVIS: Fucking Percy. Jesus. Every time. You motherfucker.

TALIESIN: I'm fast as fuck.

MATT: Okay. 20 to 15.

TRAVIS: 17.

CHRIS: 19.

LIAM: 16. Carl!

MATT: All right.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13. Keyleth?

MARISHA: Four.

MATT: All right, great. So, top of the round, Percy, you're up first.

TALIESIN: First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my pistol. I'm going to do a trick shot for the arms. Actually, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my bonus action to– you know, actually, I'm going to hold off on that. I'm going to make an arm shot to the one with the trident.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: That was my first shot. And that's 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

TALIESIN: And that's a strength saving throw.

MATT: Strength saving throw. That is going to be a 20.

TALIESIN: That just barely makes it.

MATT: Aw. The blast of your impact (bang) hits the arm. He manages to hold onto his trident-like weapon.

TALIESIN: That's fine. He's going to take his damage, and then he's going to take another one of those, because eff that.

MATT: All righty. So go ahead and roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: Because eff that.

TALIESIN: That's 13 points of damage.

MATT: 13 points of damage. All righty.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to take another shot.

MATT: Go for it. Scanlan, you're up on deck, by the way, so be ready.

TALIESIN: 20.

MATT: 20 hits.

TALIESIN: Strength check.

MATT: That's a nine.

TALIESIN: He dropped that.

MATT: Failure. (gunshot) You see his fingers are pried off as one of his pinky fingers is actually blown off from the impact, shooting dark, deep crimson blood that seems to burn the landscape around as it drips, the trident tumbling to the ground and getting lodged in a piece of rock, almost ready to spill into part of the lava.

TALIESIN: And that does seven points of damage.

MATT: Seven points of damage, all righty.

TALIESIN: Third shot's going to be a sharpshooter shot.

MATT: All righty. So minus five to the attack.

TALIESIN: That's probably going to miss. 14.

MATT: 14, unfortunately, misses.

TALIESIN: All right. That misses. I'm going to take a run behind and hide behind that rock outcropping.

MATT: There? Okay. Got it. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Do I see that big thing in the back?

MATT: This big thing here? Yeah, the fire elemental. You see that.

SAM: Okay. And the thing next to Fatty Arbuckle is also a baddie, yeah? They're all baddies?

MATT: These things are all baddies here.

SAM: All right. I'm going to take 15 feet, step to my right to put me in a straight line with the guy next to Fatty and the big guy behind him. And then fire a Lightning Bolt straight ahead to hit both of them. I hope they're not immune to lightning. We'll find out.

MATT: All righty. So, and you watch out of the corner as well, Gern, you see this tiny little gnome step to the side, conjure some arcane purplish-blue energy, and then thrust his pelvis forward as a bolt of lightning energy just rockets forth, tearing–

SAM: From my penis.

CHRIS: Nice. Of course.

SAM: Just felt like I had to make that clear.

CHRIS: Oh, I don't think I've ever seen that happen before.

TALIESIN: We have.

LAURA: So many times.

CHRIS: Have to get that looked at.

MATT: Slamming both into the larger salamander creature and the elemental behind it. Go ahead and roll 8d6 damage. What's the DC on this?

SAM: Is it my spell save DC?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: With the hand-cone?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: 20.

MATT: Ooh! That is a failure and a failure!

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: All right. So full damage against both.

SAM: 27.

MATT: Oof. All righty. As the bolt of lightning energy tears through both of them, eventually absorbed into the stone behind them, the elemental flame form flickers and falls to the ground for a second, trying to reform itself, while the salamander looks down at this blackened, burned char mark in the center of its torso from where the bolt entered and exited out of its back to strike its compadre. Not too happy, and confused how such a large, damaging thing came from such a small little creature.

SAM: It's powerful. Then I'll turn to our new friend Gern, and I will inspire him. I'll say, please, help us, and to inspire you I will sing you a song. And I will sing–

CHRIS: Pretty inspired by your dick lightning, to be honest.

SAM: Oh, there's more.

CHRIS: You think a song's going to get better than that?

SAM: It might! It might. And so I sing (singing): To everything, Gern, Gern, Gern. There is a season, Gern, Gern, Gern. I just like to sing your name, Gern Blanston. Did that help?

CHRIS: Do I have to roll to determine if that was helpful or not?

MATT: If you'd like to.

CHRIS: Certainly.

MATT: Roll a d20 for musical taste.

CHRIS: Four.

MATT: Four. It catches you by the ear with delight.

CHRIS: It's not bad, actually. It's not bad.

MATT: Your general frustration with modern music is completely bisected by the more oldies, classical sound of his tune.

CHRIS: I quite enjoyed how you worked my first name into that, actually. No one's ever done that before.

MATT: So you get a d10 inspiration dice.

CHRIS: All right.

MATT: So just keep that on the side. If ever you make an attack roll or a saving throw that isn't as high as you want it to be, you can then roll that and add the d10 to that roll.

CHRIS: Okay, great.

MATT: So you just have that in the wings, as you feel inspired.

TALIESIN: We'll try and remind you if something affects it.

CHRIS: Thank you very much. Excellent.

MATT: All right. That brings it to the elementals' turn. Now, this flame elemental is going to streak over (whoosh) to Blern who's– or, no, sorry, this is to Fatty Arbuckle. There's too many weird names tonight. And this larger fire elemental here is going to–

CHRIS: Oh, Fatty. He served me well.

SAM: I don't know, he's got a fighting chance. I love that we were scrambling for d6's when we have this right in front of us.

CHRIS: Are there any dice around anywhere?

SAM: Where are we going to find…?

TALIESIN: I'm just waiting for the hand to go in and just–

CHRIS: I found this polyhedral vase and I had to fill it with nine pounds of dice.

TRAVIS: He went the long way.

MATT: He's not doing anything, he used his whole round to get there.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay.

MATT: But now, as the larger elemental burns into the center of Scanlan, Percy, you can feel, just his presence itself is extremely, dangerously hot. The air around you is blistering. You can feel your hair curl back in its presence. The small elemental is going to go ahead and make two attacks against Fatty Arbuckle.

CHRIS: Ah, shite.

MATT: That's going to be a nine to hit. I think his AC's 13, so I don't think it's going to hit, yeah. Second one rolls a one.

SAM: Fatty lives!

TRAVIS: Fatty just don't want to die.

TALIESIN: Can't keep Fatty down.

LIAM: Bob and weave, Fatty, bob and weave!

CHRIS: Don't step too hard, Fatty! You won't be able to take it!

MATT: And with that, Grog, it's your turn. So you go into your rage at the top of your turn, and then what would you like to do?

TRAVIS: Can I use, I guess, my entire action to run towards Scanlan?

MATT: What's your speed again?

TRAVIS: 50.

MATT: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40. You can get right there between Scanlan and this creature if you want to.

TRAVIS: That's about it, huh?

MATT: I'd say that's your movement. You can move ten more feet if you want to.

SAM: You can leap over me.

TRAVIS: Nah, we need to spread out. Can I go back and arc the other way? Can I run to the left as far as I can?

MATT: This way?

TRAVIS: No, from where my starting point was.

MATT: Oh, you mean like this way instead?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Yeah, back towards you, around the pool.

MATT: That's about as far as you can get, right there. If you do not attack anything, you would lose your rage.

TRAVIS: I fall out of my rage, yeah. So I fall out of it. Can I throw something? I guess I can, yeah.

MATT: You can throw your weapon if you want to.

TRAVIS: Can I attach the Chain of Returning to Craven Edge? And I'll throw it at trident-less bastard right there, yeah.

MATT: Go for it. So you watch as this muscle-bound goliath comes leaping around the corner as it affixes a chain to the edge of its weapon, flinging a two-handed sword like a giant boomerang and–

TRAVIS: Only 14.

MATT: 14, against the larger one?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Unfortunately, it makes an impact, but it just ricochets off of its plated body armor, and then tumbles to the ground. You can go ahead and make your–

TRAVIS: Thing to pull it back. Strength. 18.

MATT: Okay, no problem. You pull it back with the chain and catch it mid-air. Ending your turn there?

TRAVIS: Keeping my rage.

MATT: Indeed. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, so I rev up the Boots of Haste and I'm going to run right next to Vex'ahlia, on the very edge of the map. And the fire elemental there's right up against Percy, right?

MATT: Yep.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to stab him three times in his fire buttocks. First one is a 27.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Second one is a 16.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third is a 14.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Hits, okay. So, first one's sneak attack, so, shite. An eight– I'll add that on at the end. Here come the dice. Two, four, seven, ten, 16, 21, 27, 28. 28 plus two is 30, 36, for that first with sneak attack damage.

MATT: Oof! His form flickers briefly for a moment from the sheer impact of the dagger hit.

LIAM: Second dagger does seven, and third swipe does nine.

MATT: Nine. All righty. The two other daggers impact, partially passing through its form, not quite as impactful as the first. That first one did seemingly cause the creature to have a hard time coalescing its fire-wreathed physicality. That ends your turn, Vax?

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: Gern, you're up. So you're right there.

CHRIS: I'm right there. How far can I run and cast a spell at the ones around Fatty?

MATT: 30 feet is how far you can run, and that's about six squares.

CHRIS: If I were to cast a bit of– how about a Cone of Cold, could I cast a Cone of Cold at the fire elementals?

MATT: You could, you could very much so.

LIAM: That sounds delightful.

CHRIS: I could cast Ice Storm, but that's a general malaise of middle-aged couples living in a neighborhood, becoming aware of their dead-end lives.

MATT: All right, so you want to move around here?

CHRIS: Yes, let's move around that bit right there. And I'd like to cast Cone of Cold. I might unfortunately have to take out Fatty, but–

MATT: Yeah, there's probably a good chance, this is not going to be– After everything else Fatty's survived, his own master deals him the possible finishing blow.

CHRIS: I feel like I should be the one to do it.

SAM: Of course.

CHRIS: It's much more humane.

SAM: It's poetic.

CHRIS: I think so.

MARISHA: You brought him into this world.

CHRIS: This is what Fatty would've wanted.

MATT: Everything under that area gets affected. So yeah, you could do that.

CHRIS: Yeah, don't worry about it. It's fine. No big thing. This old spell? I mean.

LIAM: Y'all want to go to the DQ and get a cone of cold?

MATT: What's your spell DC? It should be at the top of your spell page.

CHRIS: It is 16.

MATT: 16, all right. And it is a constitution save, let's see if they make it. That is a failure, a failure, and a failure.

SAM: What about Fatty, did he succeed?

MATT: Oh, I'll roll for Fatty. Fatty does not succeed. Nope.

LAURA: It was inevitable.

MATT: Nope. All right, go ahead and roll 8d8 points of cold damage.

SAM: Jeez. Oh man, these are not used a lot.

CHRIS: I have four. Let's see, I have a whole– there's another one here… They're not that easy to get to. Two, four, six. I need two more.

SAM: Two more? Good gravy.

CHRIS: Is this one?

SAM: Yep.

CHRIS: Here's one, and… D'oh!

LAURA: This is why I sort my dice at the beginning of the game…

CHRIS: Sorry, it sounded like there was something coming from the other side of the room.

SAM: Taliesin, you don't have a d8?

CHRIS: Do you have a d8 I can borrow?

TALIESIN: I actually don't. I don't know what happened to my d8's. I'll buy some at the convention tomorrow.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: By the way, guys, if we hit 16k before the end of tonight's show, we're going to go ahead and have a sloth come into the studio.

LAURA: What?!

MATT and MARISHA: 16K and a sloth!

MARISHA: I know! I know!

LAURA: When? When?

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: An actual sloth?

LIAM: Is it going to play with us?

LAURA: Can we hold it?

TRAVIS: Focus, focus.

CHRIS: Seven, 14, 21, 27, 31, 34, 38, 44!

ALL: Oh!

MATT: 44, all…

LAURA: (mocking Gern's accent) Farty-far pints o' cald damage!

CHRIS: I don't think I appreciate that very fucking much! I'm saving all your fucking arses out here! For crumb's sake!

MATT: As he's shouting out at you, releasing this amazing, condensed blast of pure winter hell in front of him, it comes scattering across this way, freezing the corner of this, turning partially some of the lava here to stone just by proximity, blasts past these entities, and as the arcane snow comes to rest, you can see the fire elemental here itself is having a hard time keeping itself together. Its flame is (whoosh) sputtering and flickering, barely keeping itself together. However, by its side you see three very still frozen-solid statuettes of the remnants of the two salamanders and Fatty Arbuckle. Taken by the cold of winter.

MARISHA: Oh, shit. That was awesome.

SAM: Maybe you can reanimate him.

CHRIS: It's too late. He's no good any longer.

SAM: Freezer burn?

CHRIS: Move on. I have.

MATT: We'll say for the purposes of remembering that, too, put a couple of: frozen, frozen, and frozen.

CHRIS: (singing) Let it go, let it go.

MATT: All right. I believe that ends your turn, Gern? All right. It would be the salamanders' turn, but they're frozen. Damn, they got pummeled. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Awesome. Wait, so they can unfreeze? Or are they basically frozen until something–

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: (groans) Okay. That yellow one behind me, that's Keyleth, right?

MATT: You believe so.

LAURA: Okay. I know, right? I'm going to flip backwards like ten feet.

MATT: All right, right behind it.

LAURA: I don't want to be around anybody else, so I'm going to flip over the lava pit and go out there.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Oh, don't burn your foot. Ooh!

LAURA: That would be 38.

MATT: Without issue, you land– not even, no. Two-point landing, on your feet, knee down, still clutching your ready-to-go bow, unscathed by the boiling cauldron of molten rock.

LAURA: And I Hunter's Mark the guy attacking near Percy and Scanlan and I shoot two arrows into him.

MATT: Okay, right there. Go for it. Two attacks.

LAURA: Ugh. Where is my thing? Hold on, sorry. (giggles)

MATT: You're on deck, Keyleth.

LAURA: 21?

MATT: 21 hits.

LAURA: And 17.

MATT: Both hit.

TRAVIS: That's nice.

LAURA: 17 on the first hit.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And then 18 on the second hit.

MATT: Nice! Both arrows burn to ash when they impact, but the sheer blow and the magical energy behind it from the bow that you threw it from hit it and you can see it begin to shake its form even more, itself. Did you do the Hunter's Mark damage as well?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, good. Cool. That end your turn, Vex?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. Work with me here.

MATT: Okay. All right, whatcha got, whatcha got?

MARISHA: So here's what I want to do. I want to go low and dive into that lava pit in front of me.

SAM: Ooh! Sounds scary.

MARISHA: And I want to– using the lava around me to rise out of the lava and look really scary and badass, and then I'm going to shout to the living elementals, I'm going to be like, hear my warning! I am your new master! Retreat to the Fire Plane or meet your imminent demise! This is your last chance.

SAM: Pretty good. Pretty good.

TALIESIN: Way better than last time.

MARISHA: Thanks! Thanks, guys. And if you'd like to meet for coffee later I might be available.

MATT: I'll say, given the use of lava control in this, they are still elementals, go ahead and make a persuasion check. No, intimidate, this would be intimidate.

MARISHA: Okay. Okay. That's better than my persuasion. Let's do this one, that one rolled a one. Get out of here. Get out of here. 15?

MATT: 15? You can see the smaller elemental here that just watched its friends get frozen solid, as well as whatever that skeleton was, turns towards you, and (snarls) and begins to make its way this direction.

MARISHA: Away? That's cool.

TRAVIS: Towards the portal.

MATT: Yeah. The large one doesn't seem prominently fazed by your display.

MARISHA: Okay. But that one's peacing out? Do I still have an action?

MATT: I would say that whole thing of bringing up the molten rock and the shout and everything would be your action.

TALIESIN: You knocked one off the plank, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I knocked one off the plank.

MATT: There you go. All right, ends your turn, Keyleth, brings us to Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm toe to toe with that one right there, aren't I?

MATT: Yeah, it's right up in your space.

TALIESIN: It's in my space. Okay. I'm going to draw my sword, I'm going to try to do a back and forth. Let's see how this goes.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a swipe at it with my sword.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's a 30. That hits.

MATT: That hits. You take nine points of fire damage, as just striking it, the flames burst back and burn towards your face and torso from the impact.

MARISHA: Did I put fire resist on you? At the end of last game?

TALIESIN: Yes, you did! I have fire resist on me.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So you take half damage.

TALIESIN: So that's how much? How much fire damage?

MATT: That would be four. Four damage.

TALIESIN: Four damage? Four damage. Four.

MATT: All right. And roll damage for your strike.

TALIESIN: Ooh! 15 points of damage.

MATT: Hmm! All right. Do you want to make a second attack, you said? Or are you just going to keep going back and forth, what's your plan? Whatcha doing? Whatcha doing, Percy?

TALIESIN: He's being a dick. I'm going to try and break away and back up, I'm going to try and roll away from him to be on the other side of the rock.

MATT: Okay. As you roll away, it's going to take an attack of opportunity at you. That is an 18 to hit?

TALIESIN: My armor class is 18, but I'm going to use my shield for plus five to my AC, so that won't hit.

MATT: Okay, so you use your shield brooch, okay. As it strikes out towards you, streaking its elemental claws outward, you back away, instilling the power of the brooch, and you see an arcane shield temporarily ricochets, pushing its claw away from you. You run away unharmed to the other side of the rock.

TALIESIN: Instead of going to the other side of the rock, I'm going to run straight back, and I'm just going to shoot at it as I run away. I'm going to make two more shots at it.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to take one more shot, because I have to reload. That's a 15.

MATT: 15 hits.

TALIESIN: Wow! Holy cow.

MATT: Elementals aren't very hard to hit.

TALIESIN: No, that was amazing. That's ten points of damage. And then I reload.

MATT: All right, and you reload. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Who's behind me back there, way at the edge of the map?

MATT: Over there?

LAURA: That's Vax.

SAM: That's Vax? Oh, he'll be fine. Okay, I don't want to be near this thing, probably. Right?

MATT: That's your call.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to take a step towards Vax.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And away from Gern, right? So is Gern 15 feet away from me yet, so far?

MATT: He's 15 feet from you, yeah.

SAM: Okay. So I will then cast Thunderwave, which should not hit Gern, but will hit Vax.

MATT: Is that a 15-foot radius?

SAM: It's a 15-foot cube.

MATT: Cube, so you can just make the cube here, and it'll hit none of them.

SAM: Oh! Oh, great. I'll do that. And I'll do it at level two. Thunderwave.

MATT: All right, level two Thunderwave. Coming on up. Oh, it's a self. A 15-foot cube originating from you, so yeah, so you can hit that guy.

SAM: Yeah, originating from me.

MATT: All right, cool. So, level three, that's 3d8, let's see if it makes its constitution saving throw. It does not, not with a natural seven. So go ahead and roll your damage, 3d8 thunder damage.

SAM: Not very much – Ooh! That's pretty good. 20.

MARISHA: Nice!

MATT: 20! How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Scanlan Shorthalt!

SAM: I send the Thunderwave out by cracking my knuckles, and as I do so, I do: ahem, Gern, might want to check this out.

CHRIS: Oh, I'm looking at something over here.

SAM: Gern!

CHRIS: I'll be with you in just a minute, I'm dealing with something.

SAM: Gern, I'm doing something really cool here.

CHRIS: I'll be with you in just a minute.

SAM: Fuck. So I do it anyway but with a scowl on my face.

CHRIS: All right, what did I miss?

SAM: Fuck!

CHRIS: Oh, I was just, why didn't you wait? I just said a minute.

SAM: Oh, forget it, you had to be there.

CHRIS: All right. I was here, but you didn't– you should've told me.

MATT: You even missed your own Thunderwave spell, you were so distracted with your frustration. You look back, you cracked your knuckles, and it's gone, but you didn't see it happen and it's a little disappointing overall.

SAM: I kick the dirt.

MATT: All right. You guys look over as this elemental runs off towards the glowing doorway you see further down this passage. It's not that far away from you, but you do see the flickering doorway that's like (sputtering). You can see other entities beginning to step out of it, and you can see one larger form. It looks fiery, humanoid, just (crackling) comes out, lower body made of ash and cinders.

MARISHA: I rush that way and look for my other tribe. Can I see any of my other tribemates?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: You're running at them.

TRAVIS: So if they're frozen, does that mean they're dead?

MATT: You can go find out.

LAURA: They'll probably melt eventually.

TRAVIS: Yeah, can I walk over there close to them?

MARISHA: That's better. That one keeps fucking me. What'd you say? Perception?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: 26.

MATT: 26. Currently, from where you stand–

MARISHA: No, sorry, sorry. 24.

MATT: 24. From where you stand, you can look off in the distance, you can see parts of the treeline across, down the Cindergrove, shifting and moving, and you hear the distant sounds of combat, but you do not have a visual perspective. It looks like the other teams have not quite made their way to the center. You're actually the first team to get here. And you made your way around a possible encounter, and in doing so, arrived before the other teams did. However, it looks like a secondary line of defense is now pouring out of this doorway.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: Can I make my way to the two frozen statue-types?

MATT: There's three statues, actually.

TRAVIS: Or three of 'em, yeah.

MATT: Including Fatty Arbuckle.

TRAVIS: Fatty Arbuckle. Can I make my way over to one of them and– should I just make sure they're dead?

LAURA: Yeah, just push 'em over, smash them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, can I push Trident-dick over?

MATT: Yeah. As you shove– and it's a pretty heavy form, especially with the ice that's, you know, formed around the body–

TRAVIS: Come on.

MATT: –but not too hard for you, Grog, because you're Grog. You give a little shove, and as it topples over, it just shatters into 100 pieces.

TRAVIS: Ooh, like the T-1000.

LIAM: What?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I dunno.

LAURA: Do the other one now.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, can I go over and do the other one, like, (giggles).

MATT: Yeah. This time, you give this one a full push, this one actually gets about ten feet in the air.

MARISHA: Cow-tipper!

MATT: Before scattering across the ground, pieces of it actually spilling into the molten lava. And there stands, frozen in place, Fatty Arbuckle, chest destroyed, arm limp to the side, just–

TRAVIS: Can I pick him up and walk him back over to Gern and go: sorry.

MATT: You see the half-giant goliath handing you the frozen body of your skeletal friend.

CHRIS: Well, I don't know what I'm supposed to do with this, now.

TRAVIS: You don't want him?

CHRIS: I mean, he's not very– maybe we could have a quick burial.

LAURA: You could hang a coat on him.

CHRIS: So we basically would just carry him around as a coat-rack.

LIAM: Don't we have company incoming?

LAURA: We have a Bag of Holding. Oh, there's a giant monster. I Hunter's Mark it. Is it close by?

MATT: We'll get to that as soon as we come back from this break. We're going to take a quick bathroom break and we'll see you guys back here in about ten minutes or so to continue this next step in the adventure.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. Last we left off, the party was making their way towards the center of the caldera where the portal torn open to the fire elemental plane resides over a flow of molten rock pouring in three directions from the center of the mountain. Seeing a number of entities swirling around, and some pouring forth from this open doorway, Vox Machina and their current temporary ally by the traveling dragonborn wizard/necromancer/candlemaker named Gern Blanston have made their way in this direction. Now, before we start, just to remind you guys, I guess we're getting pretty close to 16k subscribers, and when we hit 16k something with a sloth is going to happen.

LAURA: Not tonight, though.

MATT: No, not, I don't think tonight.

SAM: We have a sloth on standby.

MATT: There will be a sloth apparently that will come here for 16k and a sloth. And if you want to watch Laura freak out–

LAURA: Ah, so much!

MATT: Also, we have a giveaway winner for the evening; ToastKingJr is the winner of tonight's Critical Role giveaway, congratulations. Well done, you, we'll be sending you a lot of fun goodies your way very shortly, so–

CHRIS: Our regards to ToastKing senior.

MATT: Oh yes; well, you've made him proud. Make sure to let him know. We'll give him a little a little pipe or something inside too, it'll be good. All right, so you guys gather yourselves, stepping through the battlefield you had just encountered, the shattered and slowly melting pieces of ice that once were some of these fire elemental denizens scattered around your feet, you step forward as you see the somewhat human, somewhat flame-based entity come pouring out of the void, surrounded by other elementals, and one of the other standing salamander general-type individuals. You can see–

MARISHA: This is coming out of the rift?

MATT: Yes, coming out of the rift.

LAURA: Is that behind him, is that what the–

MATT: This is the actual doorway right there.

MARISHA: Oh, and so this is a pool of lava that they're coming out of?

MATT: Yes, this is all molten–

MARISHA: Molten fire plane, more or less?

MATT: Well, this is actual lava from the inside of the mountain that has been called forth and cracked through the surface, because of the presence of the tear.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

CHRIS: Probably fine.

TRAVIS: Probably. I don't think this will be bad

TALIESIN: We did not take a short rest, did we?

MATT: No, you did not.

TALIESIN: There has been no time.

MARISHA: I'm going to, and upon seeing this, drop my fire elemental form and I say: oh shit, I have a feeling this is the 'him' they were talking about. And I have a feeling he's not going to believe that I'm the real new master. So there's that.

LAURA: So do some cold stuff, like this guy.

MATT: I'd like you all to make a stealth check, by the way, as this is transpiring, and these entities are now making–

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace? Is that still in effect?

MATT: No, you cast Hunter's Mark, so the concentration on that ended, unfortunately, sorry.

CHRIS: 14.

SAM: 15.

TALIESIN: 13.

SAM: Oh wait, with Pass Without a Trace?

MARISHA and LAURA: No.

MARISHA: 24.

LIAM: 34.

LAURA: 22.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: As you guys are all having this conversation, hushed behind this barricade of broken tree elements, you can see this salamander general turn and hiss in that direction, look over, and point his trident in the direction of where you all are. You can see the larger fire elementals all of a sudden turn their attention in the direction of the party, as the humanoid floating about five feet off the ground, his lower form just this swirl of cinders and black ash, chuckles with his arms crossed. Points forward, and the elementals begin moving forward.

MARISHA: Can Keyleth do a quick ancillary action before shit happens?

MATT: Well, this would be the initiative order now, so everyone roll initiative.

LIAM: Maybe they see something behind us.

TRAVIS: Fuck!

MARISHA: Jesus, sucking it up today.

MATT: All right, folks, this brings us to 25 to 20?

LIAM: 20.

SAM: Hey!

TRAVIS: Jude.

CHRIS: Don't make it bad.

TALIESIN: (singing) Take a bad roll…

MATT: 20 to 15?

LAURA: 19.

CHRIS: Yes, I'm 16.

MATT: 16 for Gern.

LIAM: ErmahGern!

MATT: 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13.

MATT: 13 for Percy. Ten to five?

TRAVIS: Eight.

MATT: Eight for Grog. Scanlan, what's your–

SAM: Oh, ten, sorry, ten, ten.

MATT: So that would be just below you, Percy. All righty. I believe that's all on that end there. And that brings us to–

MARISHA: I'm seven, by the way.

MATT: Oh, seven, thought I got you.

LAURA: Nobody cares, Marisha.

MARISHA: I know, I'll just… be back here… caboose.

MATT: There we go. So right before Grog is Keyleth. Great. All right. Top of the combat round.

MARISHA: Yeah, nope. Not leading.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Shitty initiative roll.

SAM: It's going to be fine.

TALIESIN: He's cut things out of cardboard. This doesn't look fun.

MARISHA: There was planning. There was a thought process.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, towers.

TALIESIN: There was an instructables involved in this. This is just really– we're doomed.

TRAVIS: No, no, he was down in the play zone before!

MATT: Tell me who wants to roll an arcana check as you see this entity rising up–

TRAVIS: Oh, absolutely.

SAM: I will, as well.

MATT: For people who are proficient with it.

TRAVIS: Two.

SAM: Oh, with disadvantage, right?

MATT: Yes, you do.

LIAM: So tired.

CHRIS: 24.

TRAVIS: Whoa! Get out of here, dragonborn!

SAM: Look at the big brain on Gern.

CHRIS: I'm very smart.

MATT: (laughs) And as you say that, you recognize this entity and blurt out its name, just instinctually as you get a proper view of it. One of the many denizens of the fire elemental plane, this is an efreeti, it is a fire genie.

SAM: A nefreeti?

MATT: Efreeti. Yes, the species is efreeti, but an ee-frit, ee-freet, however you want to pronounce it, a flame genie, generally hailing from the City of Brass and/or spaces around and in the fire elemental plane.

TALIESIN: I could feel it from that side.

LIAM: I was thinking it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I know, I could feel it.

MATT: Floats above all of you, arms still crossed, opens its arms and as it chuckles, both hands just are engulfed in flames that congeal into these large fiery balls as it flings them both down in the direction of the party.

TRAVIS: Feel like we're in MegaMan. A MegaMan boss.

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah!

MATT: This is going to be at Scanlan and Vex.

LAURA: What?!

SAM: These are Fireballs, right?

MATT: To Scanlan, that is 13?

SAM: No way.

MATT: Vex, that is 15.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Both just (fireball impacts), cracking into the ground to the sides of where you're standing, barely missing them. It keeps glaring down at the rest of you with a smile. Ending that, it brings us to Vax. You're up.

LIAM: I got a high stealth right beforehand, so am I hidden at the moment?

MATT: As far as you know, depending on the individual. You don't know who saw you and who didn't.

LIAM: As far as I know. All right. Balls. I'm just going to throw three daggers at the salamander, right from where I am.

MATT: Right from where you are? All right.

LIAM: Yeah, okay, so. First is a 20, second is a 14, third is a 19.

MATT: Okay. The first one was what?

LIAM: 20.

MATT: The first and the third hit. If you are hidden, though, which you would technically be hidden from this individual, you do have advantage on those attacks, so you can reroll the–

LIAM: And if I'm hidden it's a surprise, right? On that guy? You tell me.

MATT: No, no, it's a sneak attack if you're hidden. A surprise round is if they have no idea that you're there.

LIAM: Okay, I thought it was a– okay, great! Fine. Love it. Okay, so.

LAURA: You have advantage, so maybe one of those would be a 20 if you rerolled them with their advantages.

LIAM: All right. No, and other one, no. So, four, eight, 12, 13, 16, 20, 31, 35 for the first. And the second one is a ten.

TRAVIS: Kick us off strong!

MATT: Not bad! Flinging both daggers, one strikes it square in the sternum and the blade cracks and pops as it hits the center of the chest. It (gurgle), you know, it can't make any sound as it disappears from the wound, returning to your belt. The second dagger manages to come towards, it tries to parry out of the air, but in doing so just gets it embedded in its forearm and it shrieks out in pain, as that too vanishes and appears once again in your belt. Are you going to move, or stay where you are?

LIAM: I'm going to move. I'm going to skip to my right and stand behind Grog and spank him on the ass and say: go get 'em, tiger.

MATT: “Go get 'em, tiger.” Right there. All righty.

TRAVIS: My name's Grog.

MATT: Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Are those trees, do they have any substance at all, or are they just there to look pretty?

MATT: I mean, you could get behind them if you want to, they're maybe about that wide.

LIAM: They're like Charlie Brown Christmas trees?

MATT: Practically. As far as the Cindergrove's concerned, they're pretty sad-looking. A lot of them have been destroyed and torn and pushed down around.

LAURA: All right. I'm going to try to use one as protection. I'm going to hop behind the one over this way.

MATT: This way, here?

LAURA: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark the efreeti.

MATT: All righty. Mark the efreeti.

LAURA: And then I'm going to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. And I'm going to shoot him three times!

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: That first one probably does not succeed. It is a 16.

MATT: That does not hit, nope.

LAURA: What about 23?

MATT: That does hit.

LAURA: All right. How about… mega miss. So one of those hits, because I'm a loser.

MATT: Streaking past, and the third one hits as he's holding the flame balls in his hands. Seeing the small impact, he just glares at you though the impact.

TRAVIS: You need to sacrifice a small mammal. Maybe we can find a squirrel or something.

LAURA: 11.

TRAVIS: A pagan ritual.

TALIESIN: I can hook you up. I have a kit.

TRAVIS: (laughter) Why am I not surprised?

LAURA: 17 points of damage and that's it because I suck.

MATT: 17 points of damage. And you are hiding behind the tree?

LAURA: I am hiding behind the tree.

MATT: That's the end of Vex's turn. It is now the elementals' turns.

LAURA: These piece-of-shit dice.

MATT: This is going to move in and actually consumes the space of Gern and his followers.

TALIESIN: That's not even a figurine, it's just a chunk of plastic.

MATT: So as you're sitting there, you just see this fire elemental just streak around real fast and all of a sudden step into the space where you and your two undead followers are, flames whirling around you. All of you immediately take five points of fire damage, you and your two allies. Stimpy and Coral, poor guys.

CHRIS: Weren't there– oh, they killed one, that's right, and you guys fucking killed one, too.

MATT: With that, it's going to make two strikes towards you, Gern. The fire elemental rushes in and just (slithering fire noises).

CHRIS: Not the vest, not the vest!

MATT: That is going to be a 13 to hit. What's your armor class?

CHRIS: 13.

MATT: Just hits you. And that's a natural 20.

(sighs and groans)

MATT: So you take 14 points of fire damage from the first one.

CHRIS: Doesn't feel very natural.

LIAM: Thanks for coming, thanks for playing.

MATT: 19 points of fire damage from the second strike. And you are currently engulfed in flame. You caught fire from the impact with the fire elemental.

CHRIS: It doesn't hurt, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm part dragon.

LAURA: Do dragonborn have natural fire resistance?

MATT: Certain ones do, not blue ones.

LAURA: Oh no!

CHRIS: If it was lightning, it'd be fine. But no.

MATT: That ends that elemental's turn. This one is going to step into the space where both Percy and Scanlan are. Both of you guys immediately suffer seven points of fire damage.

TALIESIN: I'm halved because I have resistance.

MATT: Correct, so you'd take three points. And it's going to make a strike on each of you. That's going to be a 14 versus you, Scanlan.

SAM: That does not hit me.

MATT: And then versus Percy. Same roll. 14.

TALIESIN: (laughter) Ah, you're adorable.

MATT: Misses you both with a series of terrible attacks. That ends their turn. Gern, you're up. At the start of your turn–

CHRIS: It's my turn.

TALIESIN: But first you have to take your fire damage.

CHRIS: Oh, I'm still on fire.

MATT: Yep. At the top of your turn, because you're now on fire, you take six points of fire damage. You're just wreathed in fire, all around. It's a bad, bad Sunday for Gern.

CHRIS: Oh boy. I'm trying to find something that won't destroy– How close is everyone to me? Everyone's pretty close.

SAM: No one's near the big guy.

CHRIS: No, but I'm standing right there.

TALIESIN: Here, you can see it right here. You're that little red ring right there, and then your two followers are right there. If you have anything that goes in a cube, you'd be fine. Do you have anything that's a cube shot?

CHRIS: And which way am I facing?

TALIESIN: Whichever way you want to be facing.

CHRIS: I mean, I guess– I'd like to run around and throw another Cone of Cold aimed at that guy, and then up at the prick hovering above everyone.

MATT: This direction, you mean?

CHRIS: Yes. Aye!

MATT: So you can move around to this side of the elemental, pushing past your allies, whip around, you get a little bit of a view through the fire and flames swirling around you. You concentrate and release a burst of cold energy. It might not be close enough.

CHRIS: Of course it is!

MATT: It'll be enough to get those two there.

CHRIS: All right, well, I suppose that's better than nothing at all.

SAM: That's impressive.

MATT: It's better than nothing. All right, so constitution saves on the elemental. What's your DC?

CHRIS: 16.

MATT: 16. It fails. On the salamander, that's another big fail with a 13. So go ahead and roll 8d8 damage.

CHRIS: (counting) 40. I'm sorry. What was that last one? Shit. 35.

MATT: Nice, 35 points of cold damage to both the salamander and the elemental in front of you. Great. So you see as a blast of winter arcane energy just skirts forward, casting most of the dark area here in snow and ice and sleet. You can see the front of this lava pond is cooled for the moment and actually can be walked across probably for one or two more rounds.

CHRIS: You're welcome.

LIAM: You're still on fire, by the way.

MATT: Yes, you are also still on fire. Someone has to take an action to try and douse the flames on him, whether it be himself or possibly your allies. You can still give actions to your two undead buddies.

CHRIS: Oh. In that case. I think I'd like to ask the zombie character, who I believe was– no, Stimpy was the skeleton, this is Coral. I'd like to have Coral rip– is my skin on fire, or is it just my vest?

MATT: Both, actually. The scales are starting to crisp.

CHRIS: Those are really hard to get!

SAM: The vest?

CHRIS: Yes!

TALIESIN: You could just have them swat you. Like (zombie grunting noises).

CHRIS: I need to have the zombie hurl its body on top of me, onto the ground, and roll around on me, to get the flame off. It's a very stinky enterprise.

MATT: Okay, I'll allow this. You're intentionally going prone, so you start your next combat round on the ground, which means you'll have half your movement. As Stimpy hobbles over (zombie groan).

SAM: This is Coral.

CHRIS: Is there like snow or ice on the ground?

MATT: There is behind the elemental, yes.

CHRIS: Can he scoop some up?

MATT: The zombie can take one action, unfortunately, it's not a super intelligent creature. One or the other.

CHRIS: All right, then, I suppose he just has to roll on top of me.

MATT: You guys glance over out of the corner of your eye and you see is the dragonborn all of a sudden jumps to the ground, sprawled out, snow angel style.

CHRIS: Do it! Just do it already! What are you waiting for?!

MATT: As this undead begins flailing about on top of his body. You're starting to get elements of decaying goo and–

CHRIS: Yes, it's fucking terrible!

MATT: But the flames do eventually go out, over the next five to six seconds or so. What would you like Stimpy to do?

CHRIS: I mean, I guess– I would have to give him a candle, wouldn't I?

MATT: You would, yes.

CHRIS: Right. Maybe he just scoops up as much ice and snow as possible, and attacks the–

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Snowball fight?

CHRIS: Snowball fight.

MATT: He picks up some of the frost on the ground with his skeletal hands. Flings it. Funnily enough, it hits.

CHRIS: Fuck yeah, it does.

MATT: Because it's right there. We'll say for that particular instance, it takes–

CHRIS: What, like a hundred points of damage?

MATT: Three points of cold damage.

(cheers)

MATT: Immediate steam, in the face of a fire elemental.

CHRIS: I smell like cooked cow anus at the moment.

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Weird question, what saving throw does a creature have to make with your sword?

TRAVIS: Wisdom.

TALIESIN: It's a wisdom saving throw?

MATT: No, it's constitution.

TALIESIN: Constitution saving throw. Good to know.

TRAVIS: I just answered the first thing that popped into my head.

TALIESIN: That was wisdom, fascinating. Okay, I'm right in the thick of it, aren't it?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to break away, I'll take the hit. I don't like attacking these things straight on.

MATT: At the top of your turn, by the way, you take nine points of fire damage, down to four, because you are also engulfed in flame, as is Scanlan for having passed over the space there.

TALIESIN: Nine points of fire damage, down to four. Okay. I'm going to break away and take a run for it towards that crater in the far right corner.

MATT: This way here?

TALIESIN: Thank you, yes.

MATT: Running past the fire elemental, it does get an attack of opportunity on you, swinging out with its flaming appendage. That is going to be a 13 to hit.

TALIESIN: That ain't going to hit. That's fine, I'm going to take my bonus action, and I'm going to cast Hex on it.

MATT: On which one?

TALIESIN: On the one I just ran away from.

MATT: Okay, that elemental is now currently Hexed.

TALIESIN: With a disadvantage on constitution saving throws.

MATT: Oh, okay!

TRAVIS: Hey!

TALIESIN: Teamwork!

TRAVIS: I don't think he has any blood, though.

MATT: Is it saving throws, or is it ability checks?

TALIESIN: Ability checks.

MATT: That does not affect saving throws, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: God damn it. All right, never mind. That's fine. Since I've broken off from him, I'm going to take some shots at him anyway. I'll take three shots.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: First one is an 18.

MATT: 18 hits.

TALIESIN: That's seven points of damage. Second one's a sharpshooter. That's 25.

MATT: 25. And with that shot (boom).

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Jeez, leave some for the rest of us, big boy.

MARISHA: Oh, wait, why did it go back?

MATT: Sorry, this is the one that took all the damage from the Cone of Cold, so this one is still fine. Robbed you of victory!

CHRIS: That was so weird, he disappeared for a moment and then came right back!

TALIESIN: I haven't actually damaged him yet, have I?

MATT: You did seven damage.

TALIESIN: That was the first damage. The second damage I haven't done yet.

MATT: No, you have not.

TALIESIN: 20 points of damage.

MATT: All right, nice. You're adding your Hexes to this, right?

TALIESIN: No, I'm not! Oh, shit.

MATT: Add d6 to each of these, buddy.

TALIESIN: So that's six extra points, and that's seven extra points total. Third sharpshooter shot. Thank you for reminding me on the Hex. That's a 12, that's going to miss.

MATT: 12 misses, unfortunately. You shoot too far. It actually separates its body for a second, the flames flickering away from the impact of the bullet, passing through, no effect, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Weird thing. Can I spend an action surge and put myself out of the fire?

MATT: You can.

TALIESIN: You know what, it's just fire. I will be on fire.

MATT: You will be on fire, Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to be on fire.

MARISHA: It's just fire.

MATT: Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: What is holding the thing that's floating in the sky aloft? Is he flying? Is he supported on a column of fire?

CHRIS: No, he's brought a plastic shelf with himself, apparently.

SAM: Oh, of course.

CHRIS: He's just standing on it.

MATT: It's Ikea-made, you just have to build it.

TRAVIS: It's the “schlogel.”

MATT: It appears to be flying. The very essence of this creature is partial flame and magic, and it's levitating as its lower form is a tiny dervish whirlwind of black ash and flame.

SAM: And he's a larger creature or smaller?

MATT: Large.

SAM: He's a large creature or smaller. Okay. I'm going to make him the boy in the bubble. I will cast Otiluke's Resilient Sphere.

TALIESIN: Yay!

MARISHA: What is that?

SAM: I'm going to make a bubble around him.

MATT: First you take four points of fire damage, because you're on fire.

SAM: Oh, sure, whatever. No, wait, but it was nine, right? You said? Just four?

MATT: That was when it originally got to you, and then you're still burning every turn until you put yourself out. The range on the resilient sphere is 30 feet, so you're going to want to get closer to cast it.

SAM: Oh, okay. I'll walk. He's going to hit me, isn't he?

MATT: This is cool, currently, if you want to go across. You can get there, and that'll be enough distance.

SAM: I'll do that, and then straight up in the air.

MATT: Okay, so it has to make a dexterity saving throw. What's the DC? The DC on your spells is a 20 right now, right?

SAM: It is.

TALIESIN: Wow.

MATT: And it rolled a 19. 18 plus one.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

MATT: And, with that, suddenly you guys see Scanlan concentrate, shouting the magical incantation through the hand cone–

SAM: You're in a ball, motherfucker!

MATT: You see a pink-purple-hued globe of crystalline, magical arcane energy just form around the creature, and the efreet goes (grunting).

SAM: Does he fall, or can he continue to fly?

MATT: The sphere is weightless, so no, he stays where he is.

LIAM: And is it a good witch, or a bad witch?

TALIESIN: Science check. Does oxygen penetrate the sphere?

SAM: There is still air inside.

TALIESIN: Damn it. Because that would've been amazing if he just died.

CHRIS: I was looking away, what just happened?

SAM: Oh, fuck!

CHRIS: What?

SAM: Always look at me!

CHRIS: Oh, I was looking at some grubs over by the–

TRAVIS: Grubs?

CHRIS: I'm hungry.

SAM: Oh, and I'll turn around and I will heal Gern, because he's not doing great. With my bonus action, at a second level, I will cast Healing Word, and I will sing to him again, because he loves it so much.

CHRIS: You know, I think I'm fine with 26 hit points.

SAM: (singing) Gern, baby, Gern! Candle inferno! Gern, baby, Gern! Burn that mother down!

MATT: All right. Second level, that's 2d4 plus–

SAM: Five.

MATT: 2d4 plus five you heal.

CHRIS: Oh, do I roll that?

SAM: Do I roll, or does he?

MATT: Whichever one. Doesn't matter to me.

CHRIS: Okay, so nine.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, I believe that ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.

CHRIS: Thank you. I will never again not watch your spellcasting! You tiny bundle of adorable creature!

MARISHA: Is that guy and that guy within 30 feet of each other? It's hard to tell with the thing on it.

MATT: There is 30 feet between them, yes.

MARISHA: A 30 foot long spell could hit both of them, correct?

MATT: A 30 foot long spell could– It could only hit one. It's 30 feet between them.

MARISHA: Okay. But this guy– oh, damn it. What about this guy and this guy? They're within 30 feet, right?

MATT: 35 between them. These two, there is definitely.

MARISHA: Actually, yeah, let me do that. I am going to cast a Tidal Wave right here and I'm going to go outward in this direction, and it's ten foot wide and 30 foot long, so let me back up a little bit out of it.

MATT: So it's ten feet wide, and it'll go (rushing water) like that, you mean?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you back up to there?

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: All right. Okay, dexterity save on each of them. Dexterity save on the first one.

MARISHA: Since it's water, do they have disadvantage?

MATT: No, not for the saving throw. The first one does make the saving throw, however, that is a 19 plus three, so 22. On a success, it takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone, so it takes half. The other one, however, does fail.

MARISHA: Do they take more damage because it's water?

MATT: How much is in the spell?

MARISHA: It does 4d8 damage.

MATT: Right, go ahead and roll that. I'd say, how many gallons would that be? That's a shit-ton of gallons.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's good. 12 plus eight is 20, plus another eight is 28. Math.

TALIESIN: That's a d8 there.

MATT: 14. Okay, so that's 14 and 28. I'd say that Tidal Wave, how many gallons of water would we say each one of those is?

MARISHA: It's 30 foot tall.

MATT: Well, it's ten foot tall, ten foot wide, so that's…

MARISHA: And 30 feet long.

TALIESIN: Four gallons, easily.

MATT: I'd say we're looking at close to 50 gallons of water, right?

TALIESIN: Probably way more than 50 gallons.

LAURA: That's a lot of gallons, for sure.

CHRIS: I think it's like a million gallons.

SAM: Somewhere between 50 and a million.

MARISHA: Why didn't we switch to metric?

TALIESIN: It would be a few hundred gallons of water.

MATT: We'll say for the purposes of this, for the width of it and the space you had to pass it through, we'll say roughly 60 gallons of water passes through each of these elementals. Water susceptibility, for every five feet the elemental moves in water, or for every gallon of water splashed on it, it takes one point of cold damage, so they both take an additional 60 points of damage. Which destroys both of the elementals.

LAURA: Fuck yeah! Do that again, Keyleth!

MARISHA: Okay, I will!

TALIESIN: Again, again!

MATT: So Keyleth, you have more movement still, if you want to move somewhere.

MARISHA: Oh! I'll scootch up a bit, start moving towards…

MATT: There?

MARISHA: That's good, that works.

MATT: Okay. That brings us to Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to rush up where Scanlan is, and attack that little guy on the ground there.

MATT: Right there?

SAM: I'm the little guy on the ground.

TRAVIS: No, not you, the other guy that's next to him. And can I use a reckless attack–

MATT: Are you raging first, or are you–

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, raging. I would like to rage. And then use reckless attack against him!

MATT: All right, so you got two attacks, reckless attack.

TRAVIS: 24?

MATT: 24 hits.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23 hits.

TRAVIS: Awesome. 18 on the first one.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: And 23.

MATT: 23, nice. All right, so as you rush past, looking over at the cooled rock that's starting to crack, and bits of steam vents are starting to push through underneath your feet, Scanlan. The area you're standing on isn't very sturdy, you're probably going to want to move pretty soon. However, you see this barreling form of pure anger and blade come rushing past as Grog slams into the salamander twice with his blade. That fails first constitution, and fails second. So you gain plus two strength, salamander loses two strength.

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: However, because you've taken… With each strike within melee of the salamander's heated body, it's so intense by its proximity that you suffer six points of fire damage from the first melee attack against you.

TRAVIS: She gave me resistance, so halved to three?

MATT: Halved to two.

TRAVIS: Halved to two.

MATT: The other one would be 12, so you take six.

TRAVIS: Eight total.

MATT: Total of eight fire damage just from slamming and attacking this salamander. All righty, that brings us to the very end. It is now the salamander's turn. After being hacked twice by you, Grog, it turns around, takes its trident in both hands, looks at you with this horrible snarl. You can see now these glistening, almost ruby-like sharp teeth in its wide grin. (snarl) These long catfish-like tendrils that waft off its face as it slams down the spear towards you.

TRAVIS: Oh, you brought a fork to a sword fight.

MATT: That is going to be a 23 to hit.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, that hits.

MATT: You take 12 points of piercing damage.

TRAVIS: Halved.

MATT: Halved to six. And it's going to also turn around and its tail, its long snake tail (whoosh) whips you. That is going to be an 18 to hit.

TRAVIS: That misses!

MATT: It misses, all righty. The tail comes towards you, and you knock it out of the way with Craven Edge. That will end its turn. Top of the round, I'm going to make a roll for the consistency of the currently cooled lava pool. It maintains. However, you feel your feet cracking beneath–

SAM: I think I'll stay.

TRAVIS: Feels nice here. Maybe a timeshare.

MATT: This efreet– let me look at the logistics of this spell now, because–

TRAVIS: It's pissed off in a ball.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, this spell is awful.

SAM: It can't do anything.

MATT: It is enclosed for the duration, up to a minute.

LIAM: Sorry, Matt. Sorry, Matt.

TRAVIS: He's like, first the beholder, now my flame genie.

MATT: It's pushing against, and it takes these two flame balls it conjures and throws them out towards you guys. They just go (impacts) against the sphere and then go out, and it's just (growling). It's really, really pissed off. It can't do anything.

CHRIS: (singing) Like a genie in a bottle. Got to rub me the right way.

LIAM: Can we all collectively look up at him, look sad, and go, aw.

TALIESIN: I'm looking forward to rolling it back through the rift.

MARISHA: Oh my god, can we do that? Like a hamster ball.

MATT: All right. Ending its turn, because it can't do anything, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to scoot up right in front of Keyleth on the edge of the frozen-over pool of lava, but I'm not going to stand on it. And I'm going to chuck three daggers at the salamander in front of Grog.

MATT: Okay. Right there, about?

LIAM: Right in front of her. Between her and the– yeah. There. One, two, three to the salamander.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: 21. Then 25. And then 21.

MATT: Okay, all three hit.

LIAM: All right, and because he's flanked by Grog, the first one gets sneak attack damage. Two plus eight, 14, 16, 17, 22, 23, 25, 31 for the first.

MATT: Nice.

LIAM: And then ten for the second and eight for the third.

MATT: All right. Good to know. (whoosh) As you jump in front of the way of Keyleth, you unleash all three daggers in rapid succession, each one finding its mark (impacts) into the body of the now profusely bleeding salamander. You can see now streaks of its own blood are pouring down, boiling on contact with air, the significant difference in temperature from the exterior and its actual interior body causing it to change from a liquid to a gas.

TRAVIS: That's our rogue.

MATT: End your turn?

LIAM: I look over my shoulder at Keyleth like a dumb schmuck for a second, and then back at the salamander.

MATT: Okay. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. Am I hiding? Am I hidden?

MATT: You can roll a stealth check. A hide action is a hide action. As a rogue, do you have the–

LAURA: What is that number?

MATT: I don't know what number that is.

LAURA: It's completely smooshed off of the dice!

LIAM: That means that existence is about to end.

LAURA: There's literally–

LIAM: Just roll this. Roll another one.

MATT: Technically, you do not have cunning action yet, that's a 2nd-level rogue ability, so you would use your action to hide.

LAURA: But I had my skirmisher stealth.

MATT: If you go from hide to hide you can do that, but you are not hidden at the beginning of the round.

LIAM: It's a rookie rogue mistake. It happens in the beginning.

LAURA: Yeah. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine. All right, then I'm just going to…

LIAM: At the higher levels you mess up the assassinate thing.

LAURA: Everything's a concentration thing, so I'm just going to lightning arrow the giant fire guy.

MATT: Right there?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Go for it. Roll for attack.

LAURA: Okay. 30!

MATT: That'll hit.

SAM: That'll hit anything.

LIAM: She just hit a sparrow on a paraglider.

LAURA: That's 4d8 lightning damage on a hit.

MATT: Correct, yep.

LIAM: Oh. Well, half good, half bad.

LAURA: 18. That's it.

MATT: 18 points of lightning damage?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. So as you turn around the side of the tree, releasing the arrow. As it goes through the air, streaking, it suddenly bursts into an arcing bit of energy (crackling energy), a bolt of lightning that strikes into and begins to spill around the insides of the elemental. You can see it shakes it off as the energy disperses.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to use my bonus action to hide then, with the skirmisher's thing. For my skirmisher stealth, I can use a bonus action to hide.

MATT: I'm pretty sure you have to… If you go from hiding to hiding, you can do it.

LAURA: You told me, I swear!

MATT: Read the ability, read the ability!

LAURA: Okay, where was it?

LIAM: Right now, on the air.

LAURA: Okay, where is it? I don't know where it is. I'll find it, and then I'll find out. And then I'll roll for stealth then if it works.

MATT: I'll say for the sake right now of the distraction, go ahead and do it for now, and we'll correct it later if need be. I would rather you have fun than not. So, what's your stealth roll?

LAURA: My stealth roll is 15, it doesn't even matter.

LIAM: 15, she said 15.

LAURA: It's not in the book, it's in the–

MATT: No, it's in the PDF. Anyway, what did you roll?

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15, okay. Good to know. End of your turn. This elemental creature–

LIAM: Oh jeez. Here it comes.

MATT: Comes up over–

(yelling)

LIAM: Oh, he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!

MARISHA: He tripped at the finish line!

MATT: As another one tears out of the portal and begins making its way here at full movement to there. This one's going to go ahead and make two strikes towards you, Scanlan.

SAM: Two attacks towards me?

MATT: Yep. That's going to be 11.

SAM: Is that the attack roll?

MATT: The attack roll. And a natural one. Elementals can't roll today. And you're already on fire, so its fire form won't make much of a difference to you either way. All right, so that's going to end its turn, and the other elemental pours in, that's the end of their round. All right, that brings us to Gern.

CHRIS: Oh boy.

SAM: Feel the Gern, feel the Gern.

MATT: Flames are out, you push– not Stimpy– Coral off of you, Coral standing (groan).

CHRIS: Does it count as my turn if I ask him a question about the orb?

MATT: No, you can make a quick little aside. You have to shout it out, though.

CHRIS: If I attack the genie, is it just going to attack the orb, and then he's going to be free?

SAM: Yes! I'm not looking at you, by the way.

CHRIS: It really hurts, I didn't realize how much that hurt!

SAM: Yeah, I know!

CHRIS: I've learned a valuable lesson today, while I've half-caught on fire. Can I cast some type of a mental spell through the orb to the fire genie?

MATT: You can certainly try.

CHRIS: Would it be too crafty if I were to cast Modify Memory? Could I modify the fire genie's memory to forget to not kill himself? I'll take that as a no. Can I modify the fire genie's memory into thinking that he's completed the task that he came to this realm to complete, and that he might go home?

MATT: You can certainly try.

CHRIS: I'd love to try.

MATT: Okay. What's the range on the spell?

CHRIS: Infinity.

(laughter)

MATT: Modify Memory, where is it? There we go, 5th-level.

TALIESIN: Oh, God, I hope this works.

MATT: It's a 30-foot range, so you're going to have to get a lot closer. You're getting up from prone, which is half your movement, so you only have 15 more feet you can move, so you wouldn't be able to even get into range.

CHRIS: Oh, shit, I can't cast Modify Memory anyway, I've already cast two spells like that today.

MATT: That's true, Cone of Cold. You're out of fifth level.

CHRIS: So which way– is there a chain of people? I see a couple right there.

MARISHA: Here's a laser pointer if you need it.

CHRIS: Thank you. This guy's new, right?

MATT: Yeah, and this guy hasn't been touched really, except for her lightning arrow.

CHRIS: Oh, I can shoot lightning breath, right?

MATT: You can, yeah.

CHRIS: Should I shoot at this guy or this guy?

SAM: Well, the guy next to me might hit me, but whatever!

CHRIS: I'll throw some lightning breath at this person right here.

MATT: Okay, as you stand up and dust off yourself, your fantastic zipper-covered dance jacket, brushing it off with your hands, you lumber forward to the outskirts of this newly cracking rock crust that once was a lava pool and will soon be once again, inhale. As you guys look around, you see this glow, this blue crackling blow– glow on the inside of his mouth. The blow is how he got to the mountain and then got inspired to shoot the lightning.

CHRIS: I'm flying high, but I can't get an erection. I've done so much blow.

MATT: Gern Blanston. Flying high, no erection.

CHRIS: Sad.

MATT: This crackling electric energy in the back of his toothy mouth as he– (snarl) releases this blast of lightning energy forward, striking into the chest of the fire elemental that freshly stepped out of the portal. What's the saving throw DC on that?

CHRIS: 14.

MATT: 14. It rolled a nine, so go ahead and roll the damage on the breath. How much is it?

CHRIS: It's 4d6.

TRAVIS: Love the way you're rolling today.

MATT: I'm rolling really bad tonight!

CHRIS: Four, ten, 15, 16!

SAM: Yeah, that's good.

MATT: 16 points of lightning damage to that elemental. (impact) It pulls back from the blast. You can see its form has to reconvene. There's a little bit of black and gray smoke that billows out from the wound as it turns to you (snarling). You've definitely got its attention.

CHRIS: Hello!

MATT: With your bonus action, would you like to do anything with your compadres?

CHRIS: Oh, right. I still have two left, don't I?

MATT: Yes, you do.

SAM: You do like dancing.

CHRIS: I'd like to send them off to start dancing just to the left of this gentleman right here. Just to distract him a little bit, because I seem to have caught his attention, so I'd like to start a little dance party right there. This fellow right here, the zombie, can do a little break dancing, and then the skeleton can do a bit of the bird, and then maybe the worm.

MATT: All right. As the skeleton leaps down into the worm (crash), just flat laid out, cracking part of its pelvis…

CHRIS: Dancing without music.

MATT: Yep. No music whatsoever.

CHRIS: Is the zombie like (zombie groaning). The tip of his arm falls off at the ulna.

TALIESIN: Pop and lock! Pop and lock!

MATT: All right. I'm going to go ahead and–

CHRIS: These guys are great!

MATT: I'm going to ask you to go ahead and roll a performance check.

SAM: We never do those!

LAURA: I feel really bad that I killed Carol now.

MARISHA: Oh, that was almost bad.

TALIESIN: Wait, plus, plus–

SAM: Oh, you have inspiration!

MARISHA: You do!

LAURA: Use it!

SAM: Use a d10!

LIAM: This is the time.

CHRIS: Oh. So seven, plus performance plus one, eight, and then a d10.

LIAM: Roll the d10, add it.

CHRIS: Jesus Christ. Ten.

MATT: Ten. Trying to recall and hum the song that Scanlan once sang to you, naught but ten minutes before, you don't recall it much at all, and it comes out (tuneless humming).

CHRIS: (singing) Gern, Gern, It's Gern. It's Gern time!

SAM: Pitchy, little pitchy. Flat.

CHRIS: (singing) It's Gern, time to Gern!

SAM: Well, now you're sharp.

CHRIS: (singing) Gern it all the way. I'm doing great!

SAM: Yep, your name was in the song!

CHRIS: (singing) Gern is my name and this is definitely the song that I'm singing.

MATT: It's discordant enough that on a low wisdom save I'll say the fire elemental's next attack has disadvantage. That was the strangest round of combat I think I've ever had in D&D. All right, Percy, you're up. Follow that. First, top of your round, you take nine points of fire damage.

TALIESIN: That's halved to five.

LAURA: I have the skirmisher stealth! As a bonus action at the end of your turn, you can make a dexterity (stealth) check to hide again.

MATT: All right, cool, there you go. Perfect. Wasn't sure if you had to be hidden at the top to do it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shift my Hex to the tiny little (Irish accent) fucker. God, you've got me doing it now. Damn it. It's a plague.

CHRIS: It's contagious.

MATT: To which one, this guy there?

TALIESIN: No no no, the one furthest from me.

MATT: Right there?

TALIESIN: Yeah, right there. I'll move my Hex to him. I'm going to bust out the Bad News rifle, I'm going to sit, and I'm going to take a nice, calm, calculated sharpshooter shot at him.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And Bad News just goes (click).

MATT: Did you misfire?

TALIESIN: I misfired.

MATT: Oh no! You get down with the gun and (click). You look at it and you can see some of the metal bowing in the centerpiece like, “That's bad. That's bad. That's bad. That's bad!”

TALIESIN: It's fine. I put it down, I pull out the pistol, and I'm going to take a shot.

MARISHA: It's hot. It's really hot. Just keep going.

TALIESIN: That was really awkward.

MARISHA: Maybe the heat made you misfire.

TRAVIS: Just roll the dice.

LIAM: You're also 60 feet apart at the moment.

TALIESIN: That's a 25 to hit.

MATT: 25 hits. Sharpshooter? No.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: That's sharpshooter? Wow. Nice roll.

TALIESIN: Six, 12, 22 points of damage. And I reload, and that's my turn.

MATT: That's your turn. Okay. Finishing up Percy, that brings us to Scanlan. You're still concentrating on Otiluke's Resilient Sphere.

SAM: Oh, yes I am.

LIAM: The gnome has got this.

SAM: Hey, how's that stuff under my feet?

MATT: Pretty rough. You're going to want to step off of it very soon, probably.

SAM: I'm going to step into it.

LIAM: Love you, Scanlan.

SAM: So I can fire a Lightning Bolt and hit both of those guys.

MATT: Oh, snap. Okay.

SAM: And yeah, that's it. That'll be my–

MATT: You can still move after that.

SAM: Oh, good! Okay, good, thank you for saving me.

MATT: So the bolt arcs past, go ahead.

CHRIS: I saw that, it was great!

SAM: Oh, for once! Thank you! Thank you, it was for you!

CHRIS: Much appreciated!

MATT: Five, no. And a 12 plus three, 15, no. Both fail their saving throw.

SAM: Okay, so 8d6?

MATT: 8d6 points of lightning damage to both of them. It's a wonderful display, Gern.

LIAM: I ship Scanlan and Gern.

CHRIS: Shh, guys, please.

SAM: 33.

MATT: 33, nice roll.

CHRIS: Oh, that Lightning Bolt was so big. And wide!

SAM: It's the width that really does it.

CHRIS: It really does. It's not so much the length.

TALIESIN: It's the girth of Gern.

SAM: And I will re-inspire Gern. Oh, wait, you're still injured, aren't you?

CHRIS: Yeah.

SAM: I will heal Gern.

CHRIS: Please.

SAM: With another Healing Word. This time at third level.

MATT: Technically, a second spell can only be as high as second level. You used two spells in one round.

LIAM: It's still very romantic, though.

SAM: Okay, I'll do a 2nd-level Healing Word, and I will sing to him, because I'm running out of things that rhyme with his name: (singing) Gern down for what! (EDM beat) Gern down for what! That's it.

CHRIS: Might I remind you I am unable to get an erection at the moment?

MATT: However, in spite of that, the blue pill does give you ten additional hit points healed.

LAURA: Did the skeleton and the zombie start dancing better, after that?

MATT: Yeah, it actually does pick up their pace a little bit now that they have a backtrack.

CHRIS: What is the elemental doing while they're dancing?

MATT: Well, it's currently being surrounded by a swirl of Hex shadow and looking around very confused and wondering why it got up in the morning.

TALIESIN: Where did the glow sticks come from?

MATT: Do you want to move out?

SAM: And I can move out?

MATT: Yeah, you can.

SAM: Will he take a swipe at me?

MATT: It will yes, but better than possibly falling in.

SAM: I'm still on fire, right?

MATT: Yes, you are. Takes an action to put it out, though, unfortunately. That's 18 plus six. I believe that does hit you. You take 12 points of fire damage.

SAM: Plus whatever I was on fire for.

MATT: You already took that damage earlier.

SAM: Oh, I did? At the beginning of my turn.

MATT: Yeah, I rolled for that already, you take nine points of fire damage, I think it was.

SAM: Oh, okay, plus 12?

MATT: Plus 12. If I'm wrong, whatever, it's fine. All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Keyleth.

MARISHA: So we have these two assholes in front of us.

LIAM: My name is Vax.

MARISHA: Well, depends on the day. So, that guy is still alive too, yeah?

MATT: Yeah, all three of these guys are alive. And this guy's in a hamster ball.

LAURA: Being pissed!

TALIESIN: It's just like a weather balloon.

MATT: Yeah it's a rover just holding him in place.

MARISHA: I'm going to Tidal Wave again. Tidal Wave! Right here, this way, fucking with these two guys.

MATT: All righty, let's go ahead and roll some saving throws on their end. ('The Prisoner' theme starts playing)

TALIESIN: Thank you, thank you.

MATT: Yeah. Six and an eight, both fail. Who is number one?

CHRIS: I am not a number, I'm a free man!

MATT: So good, so good. The original one, not the remake. Patrick McGoohan. Two failed saving throws, go ahead and roll damage on that.

MARISHA: It's really good, I'm warning you right now. Seven and seven is 14 plus another six, brings me to 20, plus eight, 28, again. That's what I had last time right? 28.

LIAM: Kismet.

MATT: 28 points of water damage, plus the additional blast of water gallons surging through them, manages to completely scatter both these guys.

TALIESIN: We actually had a Critter tweet us how much water.

MATT: How much water would be in a Tidal Wave?

TALIESIN: 225 gallons.

MATT: Oh, there is no way they're surviving that.

MARISHA: And then technically in Tidal Wave it says the water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in the area within 30 feet of it.

MATT: Unprotected flames are different than lava pools. Water doesn't cool it, it just evaporates.

TALIESIN: We've got steam.

MATT: You do. You have a very heavy cloud of steam now, that is (steam sound) to the side. The dancing skeleton and zombie are now just these shadows lit in this cool music video light now as they're (groan) dancing.

LIAM: As if this were a Telltale game, at the top of the screen it says, 'Keyleth will remember this'.

MATT: Exactly. Tidal Wave on fire elementals is nasty, man. (“Thriller” starts playing)

MARISHA: Can I use my bonus action–

MATT: Perfect. This is happening, guys. Is that the rest of your turn, Keyleth? Do you want to move somewhere?

MARISHA: Question.

MATT: Yes, what's your question?

MARISHA: Can I theoretically cast a Grasping Vine coming out of the hellmouth?

MATT: No, Grasping Vine is a 4th-level spell, I believe, and as a bonus action you can't do anything more than a 2nd-level spell in the same round.

MARISHA: Fuck, never mind. Actually, no, that's not true. I will take my bonus Healing Word to toss another Healing Word, just 1st-level, over to Gern.

MATT: Everyone's keeping the dance master alive over there.

CHRIS: Oh my god, amazing.

MARISHA: So you heal eight points, Gern.

MATT: Eight points of healing to you, Gern.

SAM: He's gone.

MATT: We can't save him. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I use another reckless attack and I make the first strike against the guy right in front of me.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Jesus. Better. 14.

MATT: 14 misses, unfortunately.

TRAVIS: Damn it.

MATT: Are these with great weapon master?

TRAVIS: No, just reckless attack. This one is with great weapon master. Nope. Better. 16 plus nine is 25, minus five is 20.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Yahtzee! Five, ten, 18, 28!

MATT: 28 points of damage, okay. This time, as you release the first blow of your sword forward, he catches it in the blade of the trident and deflects it off to the side, slamming it into the ground, almost pinning the weapon for a second. He gets up in your face and grins (snarls), and the actual breath that emanates from its teeth begins to burn and singe the edge of your beard hairs. That infuriates you, and you lift up Craven Edge between the blades of the trident. It's a test of strength as you both tense, and eventually you lift it back, and with the backswing, slash him right across his chest with that blow. You see a strike of extremely hot, hot blood splatter across, (sizzling), singe the front of your chest and leave little burn marks on you.

SAM: Yes!

TRAVIS: Like freckles.

LIAM: You don't want to fuck with his beard!

MATT: He does make the save.

CHRIS: She has a name.

LIAM: Sorry, Laura.

MATT: Well played. Does that end your turn?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's the end of my turn.

LAURA: Why am I laughing at that?

TRAVIS: Darling, shush.

MATT: Efreet's going to start pushing against the ball, which is going to begin to coast through the air this way.

LIAM: Does he spin the globe?

MATT: Just gliding through slowly.

TRAVIS: Genie hamster.

MATT: Yeah, that's about all he can do this turn.

SAM: Sorry!

MATT: No, no, it's what you do. It's what you do. All right, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Man, all right. I'm in a good spot, I'll just throw three more daggers at the salamander that Grog has not yet killed. First one is a natural 20, the second one is a 13, and the third one is, aw, fuck, is a 14.

MATT: Okay. Hold off on those two attacks, just in case how much your critical sneak attack does.

LIAM: Five, six, seven, eight, 12, 18, 21, 25. 25, so you double the dice, is 56 for the first one.

MATT: Okay, so as you throw the dagger, it goes right past Grog's ear and you hear the (whoosh) of the wind as it just brushes past your face. After you finish your backswing with Craven Edge, as the salamander creature rears back from the impact, it looks towards you, and its eyes twitch ever so slightly to your right as it sees the incoming blade a little too late as it (impact) right into its right eye socket. Its tongue lolls out of its jaw as it falls onto its back, and its tail moves and twitches for a few seconds before it eventually goes limp.

TRAVIS: No, no, he's still alive! And I kick him. Now he's dead.

MATT: Grog stomps it into the ground. The twitching stops, the salamander now destroyed.

TRAVIS: Does the dagger stay in his eye socket?

MATT: It's currently in the eye socket, yeah.

TRAVIS: Ooh. Can I reach down and grab it?

MATT: Yeah. You reach down and grab the dagger, and as you pull it out, (poof) it turns into smoke in your hand.

TRAVIS: Holy shit! I look back at Vax.

LIAM: Grog, how did you do that?

TRAVIS: I don't know! I think maybe I'm a magic user now! And I start trying to cast reanimate person on the dead thing.

MATT: Okay.

CHRIS: That's not how you do that!

TRAVIS: No, no, no, I've got to concentrate!

CHRIS: All right.

TRAVIS: (straining)

LAURA: Hey, Scanlan!

SAM: Oi!

LAURA: What are we going to do with this giant ball?

SAM: We need someone to bring him down to earth. Keyleth, can you vine him down? Or, Gern, do you have something that can move things?

MARISHA: Can I–

CHRIS: Go ahead.

MARISHA: No, go, you first. Please, Gern.

LIAM: Does anyone have a large purple hand they could use?

TALIESIN: I think he would lose–

MARISHA: Yeah, it's a concentration spell.

MATT: Yeah, one spell at a time.

CHRIS: I thought I had some sort of a Telekinesis spell, but I guess I don't.

SAM: Chromatic Orb?

MARISHA: No, that's an attack.

LAURA: Can you bring it down, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I can try. Can I do a Grasping Vine from the bottom underneath of him, and see if I can?

LIAM: He's over lava.

SAM: He's got something!

CHRIS: Oh, sorry, go ahead.

MATT: What are you doing? I know what you're doing, what are you doing?

CHRIS: I could either manipulate his memory, or I do have a flying broom.

SAM: What?

LIAM: Yes?

CHRIS: Yes, I have a flying broom.

TRAVIS: Like you do.

LAURA: Are you going to bat him down like you're sweeping the sky?

CHRIS: I could fly up and gently glide him down.

LAURA: How come everybody flies?

MATT: Are you doing your vine as well?

MARISHA: Let me see how this goes first.

MATT: So, without any other command, your two friends, Coral and Stimpy, are still over there dancing as the mist slowly dissipates from the deluge. You pull out from the side of your little satchel there your flying broom, which is a pretty decent, medium-sized broom, places it in the air and it rests there, slightly shifting in place. You leap up onto it and grab onto the front as you shoot up from the side.

CHRIS: Going up to catch the golden bitch!

LAURA: There's flying brooms?!

MATT: As you place yourself on top of Otiluke's Resilient Sphere, placing all your weight onto it, it sinks a little bit, then it comes to a halt. About three feet it sinks, as you're just standing on top of it.

MARISHA: That's as far as it goes?

MATT: What do you want to do?

CHRIS: I'd like to try to cast a memory spell on it, if possible.

MATT: Okay. Well, you've already cast a 5th-level spell twice, how many 5th-level spells can you cast per day?

CHRIS: Two.

MATT: Yeah, unfortunately you're out of 5th-level slots.

CHRIS: Could I cast it on you to forget that I've already cast it twice?

LIAM: Scanlan, how much time do we have with this bubble?

SAM: A minute, but about 30 seconds have gone by.

MATT: Yeah, you're getting down to about the 40-second mark.

TALIESIN: Can I put myself out while all of this is happening?

MATT: Yes, you can do that.

SAM: Can he push down?

MATT: You can jump onto it and begin to push down.

CHRIS: I'm going to push down with all my might, to try to get him down on the ground.

MATT: You leap in the air and jump on it again and as you do the orb (sinking noise) and just slowly, over the next 15 seconds shove it down to the point where you're over the orb on the very top, as you can feel the spell about to dissipate.

LIAM: Grog, Grog! Stop trying to reanimate that thing and hit the freaking red guy into the hole!

MATT: Grog, go ahead and roll an arcana check.

SAM: Oh, he's the best at arcana.

LIAM: 20. Get it. Get it. Reanimate that fucker.

TRAVIS: Six.

MATT: Six. This isn't working.

TRAVIS: Must be a rookie mistake.

SAM: What are we trying to do, shove him back into the hole?

TALIESIN: Shove him in the hole!

LIAM: Grog, shove that fucking thing in there.

TRAVIS: He's over lava.

LIAM: You are made of hit points!

TRAVIS: All right, fuck it– This is your thing.

MARISHA: Can I do the vines from out of the portal?

MATT: No, it has to have an anchor point somewhere.

TRAVIS: All right, fuck it, now I just run, in a rage, I run into the lava and I start shoving him straight toward the flaming vagina hole.

MATT: Okay, I want you to make an athletics check. Actually, no, this would be a full strength check. Just roll a strength check. You have advantage because you're still raging. Although you wouldn't be raging anymore because you spent time concentrating on the spell, you could go into a rage for this if you'd like to, spend another use of your rage.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll use another one.

MATT: Okay, you go into a rage. All right, as you step into the lava, you suffer 26 points of fire damage from wading up to your knees in molten rock.

MARISHA: Halved.

MATT: Halved because of your resistance.

TRAVIS: So 12. I rolled a 22.

MATT: 22. With that you, (boof), you shove the sphere, which shifts back about halfway to there. You have to catch yourself on the side, grabbing the broom and holding it out here as you're stepping the other direction. I want you to make an acrobatics check.

CHRIS: All right. Seven.

MATT: Seven.

TALIESIN: You have inspiration!

SAM: Nope. He used it.

MATT: As you (slipping noise) slip off the top of the sphere, begin to fall back toward the lava behind you, in a very Lord of the Rings Gollum tumbling into Mount Doom type of view. (sploosh) Back first into the lava.

LAURA: Oh shit.

CHRIS: I feel fine.

MATT: Actually, you take six points of fire damage. Impacting– rolled really low on that. (sploosh) You can feel the back of your scales and the flesh on your back immediately begin to burn with horrifying pain. You're holding your broom aloft, 'cause you don't want that to go in the fire.

LAURA: I run forward to try to help him out.

SAM: And steal the broom.

MATT: And with that, the sphere breaks.

(disgruntled moans)

LIAM: Crap.

MARISHA: Can Keyleth run up, do I have an action?

MATT: Right now we're going back to the initiative order, since combat has re-initiated with the sphere opened. That brings us to the top. The efreet, now freed from its sphere, is going to go first.

LIAM: He's mad.

MATT: He is livid. All right.

TRAVIS: I just want you to know, I was trying to free you.

SAM: I don't know these people.

LIAM: These assholes.

TRAVIS: Can you believe how rude these people are?

MATT: He's going to fly back up.

(groans)

MATT: Keep away. Let's see. It's going to cast Invisibility on itself, then it vanishes from view.

MARISHA: Great.

SAM: As it does that, do I recognize the spell?

MATT: You do.

SAM: I cast Counterspell.

MATT: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll– Oh, wait, no, it's a 2nd-level spell. It auto– Yeah. Yeah. Because it is a 2nd-level spell.

SAM: Hi!

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MATT: As its form begins to vanish, Scanlan, what do you do to counter it?

SAM: I'm going to sing– No! I'm going to distract it with this.

TALIESIN: With an app?

SAM: With an app. (airhorn) (song starts) Oh, wait that's not what I wanted to do!

CHRIS: Keep going! Distract him with your morning radio program!

MATT: And that bit of chaos is just enough, as he begins to cast his innate Invisibility spell, it looks over. “What in the– Shit!” And loses the spell concentration. The invisibility field vanishes, and it stands there above. All right, that brings us to Vax.

LIAM: Oh, shite. All right, I'm going to leap over the lava pit.

MATT: Make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Yeah. That'll be a 28. I run up behind Grog, and I should be within–

MATT: Darting around the side there, because you are hasted with this, so you can actually just dart around the side.

LIAM: All right, right behind Grog. I should be within 60 feet of the efreeti.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: And I'll throw three daggers at it.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: First one is a 34.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Second one is a 27. Third is a 29, so they all hit.

MATT: Shit, jeez, 34.

LIAM: But there's no sneak attack on these–

MATT: How did you get 34 on your attack?

LIAM: I don't know anymore. I rolled really high, and I rolled my attack bonus, like a 19 plus 11? A 30?

MATT: 30, okay.

LIAM: I don't know.

MATT: That's okay. A 30 works.

LIAM: Math looked right when I did it.

MATT: 34, I was just like (groaning) bleeding from the nose, I couldn't deal with it. 30 hits.

LIAM: There's no subterfuge, it might be stupidity. First one's a ten, second one was a ten, and the third one is a seven.

MATT: Seven. Got it. Cool. That ends your turn, Vax. That brings us to Vex.

LAURA: Hunter's Mark!

MATT: All right. It is…

LAURA: It wasn't, because I used Lightning Arrow, so it dropped the concentration on it.

MATT: That's right, so you Hunter's Mark once again. Put that back on there. All right.

LAURA: Although it doesn't really matter because I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on him and I lose my Hunter's Mark again.

TRAVIS: Trauma from the earlier episodes. Hunter's Mark!

MATT: All right, so Lightning Arrow again, go ahead and roll for the attack.

LAURA: Oh yeah! Oh, that's 31?

LIAM: 79!

LAURA: 31!

MATT: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Okay!

MATT: Gern, you're on deck.

LAURA: 23!

MATT: 23 points of damage, all righty.

LAURA: That's better.

MATT: (impact) The lightning slams into his chest, and you can see it arcs through its scimitar that it's holding up in its hand, and it shakes and almost drops the weapon, and catches its arm as the electricity disperses out the edge of the blade and looks back at you. He's now glaring at both you and Scanlan.

LAURA: I'm going to use my movement to run up around the molten lava and hold my hand out for Gern, so that he can use me to get out of the molten lava.

MATT: All right, that's as far as you can get there.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Gern, top of your turn, you take 24 points of fire damage from the lava as you're sinking into it. (sizzling)

CHRIS: So, can I jump up and then cast a spell?

MATT: Right now you can try and cast, in this area, but you would have a hard time concentrating. I'd say you'd have to take a concentration check to even get a spell out, because you're in so much pain. I'd say you would probably want to move out of the lava before you do that.

CHRIS: All right, I'll get out of the lava.

MATT: So you (straining) stand up.

LAURA: Take my hand!

MATT: It's too deep and you're having to basically wade your way through, which is burning your hands as you get over there.

CHRIS: What about my broom?

MATT: You were holding your broom! So here's what you do. You go ahead and you lift yourself up out of the lava onto the broom and then (blowing) push. You're not fully on it, and it's hard to engage its mental commands directly with the current amount of chaos around you, but you do manage to skirt yourself to the very edge of the lava and land on your feet, which are numb after the sheer amount of pain you've suffered, and you don't even want to look down at what you look like from the waist below.

LAURA: Do you need me to hold your broom while you cast your spell?

CHRIS: Please!

LAURA: Thank you!

SAM: Oh, don't do– Okay.

MATT: So she takes the broom from your hand. What are you going to cast?

CHRIS: Disintegrate.

MATT: Okay!

TRAVIS: Disintegrate?

SAM: That's a spell?

LIAM: That's a big one, we've seen that happen.

SAM: We have?

MARISHA: Yes.

SAM: Who did that?

LIAM: The giants got disintegrated.

CHRIS: I'm fairly pissed at the moment.

MATT: As you should be. All right, so you get to go ahead and roll.

LIAM: Get the fucker, you dirty bastard.

MATT: Let me get to the spell here real fast. Disintegrate. Oh, it just makes a dexterity saving throw! It doesn't even get a chance. All right, what's your spell DC again?

CHRIS: 16.

MATT: 16. It rolled a two.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: That's going to be bad. All right, roll 10d6 plus 40 damage. Damn!

TRAVIS: 10d6?

MATT: Disintegrate doesn't mess around. It's an all or nothing spell. If they make the save, nothing. You don't make it, (explosion).

CHRIS: 27, 33, 36… So 76!

MATT: 76 points of force damage. As you get out, you can see your vest itself is burning, there's still elements of embers burning at the edges of the leather and the cloth. The bottom part of your scales are a combination of blue, black, and little bits have cracked open where you can see red flesh underneath. There's a lot of burn damage.

CHRIS: The zippers are very hot, I might add.

MATT: They're really glowing. However, as you turn around, as your fin jewelry on the sides of your face jangles with the speed as you spin around and point your finger upward, the arcane energy forming at the end of your finger, this singular beam of dull green arcane energy streaks forward. The efreet, who is currently focused on Scanlan and watching Vex run past, looks down just in time to see you release the spell. Opens his eyes and attempts to dodge out of the way, unfortunately not fast enough. It blasts in the side of its shoulder and you can see as a whole chunk of its back muscle, shoulder, and lower torso are just turned to dust, exposing bone and elements of its musculature and flesh underneath. It goes (snarls) and looks down. It can't even make a loud emission of pain, it's just gutturally whispering its horrible suffering. As it looks down, it reaches up with its hand and cauterizes the wound on the back of its body, leaving it a charred cinder. It glares down at you, extremely angry. “I hate you most of all, scarecrow!”

CHRIS: Go back to your fire slit!

MATT: Percy, you're up. Unless you want your dudes to do anything, by the way. They're still over there dancing.

CHRIS: They should get a little bit closer and dance in front of him, just to make sure. They get very self-conscious if no one's paying attention.

SAM: Of course.

MATT: They're just cheering on.

TRAVIS: At least they're dancing while I'm standing on fire.

TALIESIN: Can I knock him down a notch? Can I try and shoot him to drop him out of the sky a bit?

MATT: You can certainly try.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try. First of all, I'm going to Hex him. He's hexed. I point.

MATT: All right, so the Hex moves over.

TALIESIN: Hex moves over. And I'm going to take a shot to try and drop him. I'm going to take a grit shot to drop him.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 22.

MATT: 22 hits.

TALIESIN: And that's, what's the saving throw for that? Strength throw.

MATT: Strength? 23.

TALIESIN: Aw, really?

MATT: Yeah. Sorry.

TALIESIN: That's fine, he'll just take his damage.

MATT: Little bitch. Plus 1d6, don't forget.

TALIESIN: Yes, thank you.

MATT: Wow, Disintegrate spell fucked him up.

TALIESIN: That's 17 points of damage.

MATT: Nice.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot again.

MATT: Is this with your pistol?

TALIESIN: Yeah, just with the pistol right now.

MATT: And what's your first range increment on that?

TALIESIN: 400.

MATT: The pistol?

TALIESIN: Yeah. 1,200 for Bad News.

MATT: Your first range increment.

TALIESIN: I'm sharpshooter, I have no range increment.

MATT: That's right. Good call. All right, so fire again.

TALIESIN: Range increments are for– We don't do that here.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That's a 31 to hit.

MATT: That hits, roll damage. Scanlan, you're up next, by the way.

TALIESIN: And that's 16 points of damage.

MATT: All righty. (two impacts) Just as it manages to cauterize the wounds from the Disintegrate spell, both bullets blast into its torso, and you can see it's now, thinking the height advantage would be helpful, after being locked in a hamster ball and now being repeatedly blasted from every which way, it's not enjoying its current experience by any means.

TALIESIN: It's going to get worse. All right, and now I'm doing a sharpshooter shot.

MARISHA: Pew pew.

TALIESIN: Pew pew. That's 18?

MATT: 18 hits.

TALIESIN: And that's 12, 18, 28 points of damage.

MATT: Nice! This one (impact) blasts into the center of its chest, and you can see part of its pectoral muscle tears open and flame erupts from the impact. It reaches up and (snarling).

TALIESIN: Action surge. Fuck this guy. Same thing, sharpshooter. I'm going to be rolling sharpshooter.

MATT: Go for it, okay.

LIAM: Get the other nipple, now?

TALIESIN: The other nipple.

MARISHA: Matching piercings.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: 22 hits. This is going to be a rough round for him.

TALIESIN: 27 points of damage.

MATT: Ooh!

TALIESIN: Reload and one more shot!

LAURA: Jesus Christ! I mean.

TALIESIN: Reload, one more shot.

MATT: You got it.

TALIESIN: That's 17, 27, 29–

MATT: That's a hit. Go for it, roll damage.

TALIESIN: That hits.

MATT: Damn, man.

TALIESIN: 21 points of damage.

MATT: All right. (two impacts) These holes are beginning to appear in its body where the bits of fiery flesh are being blasted away from the impacts of your weapon. All right, that brings us to Scanlan!

LAURA: It didn't kill him?

TALIESIN: No, but he's a sieve now.

MATT: You guys held him–

LIAM: He just took 100 points of damage.

TALIESIN: He took a lot of damage.

SAM: Hey, that Ioun stone that I have? Does that allow me to cast a fourth level three spell?

MATT: If the spell you put into it was a fourth 3rd-level spell, yeah.

SAM: It was a 3rd-level spell, so it's an extra 3rd-level spell?

MATT: Right.

SAM: I'm maxed out on 3rd-level spells, but I still have that thing.

MATT: Yeah, so it wouldn't be a 4th-level spell because you didn't cast into it as a 4th-level.

SAM: No, I mean, the fourth time I've cast a 3rd-level spell.

MATT: Oh, got you. It wouldn't count against your daily. It's in addition to that.

SAM: Okay! So I will, for the first time ever, use that stupid Ioun stone and cast Lightning Bolt again. I'm just sticking with my method here.

MATT: All right, all right. With a five, it does not make its saving throw. Go ahead and roll damage. 8d6.

SAM: 8d6, thank you.

LIAM: Here comes the cube.

CHRIS: 23, 28.

SAM: Thank you. Did you do this one too? 28!

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Both kills! Both of them!

SAM: I think I would like to, if there's a way, I'd like to angle it somehow so that he will drop right on top of Grog. I feel like Grog can do something to a falling behemoth.

MATT: It's hard-pressed from this angle, unfortunately. Grog is at an angle where you wouldn't really be able to do that.

SAM: Damn it.

MATT: Mind you, when you blast him, he'll plummet close to his feet, if you wanted to.

SAM: All right, yes, let's do that so Grog can feel like he gets part of this, too. And if I can, I'd like to burn a big S in his chest.

MATT: So, as you charge up and blast the lightning bolt from your crotch region, you then do a little dance maneuver with your waist, causing it to (crackling) carve a Scanlan S into the torso of the efreet. As it plummets to the ground, slamming into where the lava would be, while the fire doesn't hurt its form, you can see, Grog, as it stands in the ground (groaning). Its form is turning into ash around you. It's actually just dissipating and turning to ash as its eyes roll up and meet with yours.

TRAVIS: I run over in the lava and I go, I'd like to cast Beheading!

MATT: All right. You suffer 26 points of fire damage, reduced to 13 from taking another round in there.

TRAVIS: Not a problem. Totally worth it for the spell.

MATT: As you take Craven Edge and take the head off. As the head rolls away–

TRAVIS: I grab it!

MATT: You grab it! It turns to ash.

TRAVIS: (panting) I run out of the lake.

MATT: You get out of the lava, stand on the side, and look over just as the rest of the head turns to ashes.

TRAVIS: Aw, shit.

LAURA: I walk up to Grog.

LIAM: You did it again!

LAURA: I pat him on the shoulder, and say, that was so impressive. A genuine mage! And I use sleight of hand to shove the flying broom into the Bag of Holding.

MATT: Okay. Roll sleight of hand.

TALIESIN: Whoa!

LIAM: Yeah, girl.

CHRIS: Am I allowed to roll a perception?

MATT: Yes, you can.

LIAM: Come on, Vex. Come on, sister.

LAURA: 18?

LIAM: Get it.

CHRIS: 16.

MATT: Plus?

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: Total of 16?

CHRIS: 15 plus one, yeah.

MATT: As you're dealing with this, you have no notice of this. You may question it later, if you like, but you have no idea where it went, and didn't see any of this transaction happen.

LAURA: Oh no! Oh no!

SAM: What, what is it?

LAURA: Your broom fell in the lava!

CHRIS: What?

LAURA: I saw it!

CHRIS: I just turned around for a moment!

LAURA: I tried to give it back to you and it fell in the lava!

CHRIS: Are you sure?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: You shouldn't have looked at me when I cast my spell!

CHRIS: This is why I never looked at you before!

SAM: I was wrong to doubt you!

CHRIS: No! No, you're a constant source of disappointment!

LAURA: 18.

CHRIS: Where's my fucking broom?

MATT: Make an insight check now.

CHRIS: Insight. 13.

MATT: 13. She's telling the truth, man. That broom just went straight in the lava.

SAM: You're a horrible person.

CHRIS: You know, I'm really good at reading people, and I know that you're telling me the truth right now.

LAURA: I'm so sorry.

CHRIS: No, I feel your sorrow. I feel it. I feel bad for you, that you have to experience that! It's just a broom. Right? It's just a flying broom that's very difficult to find, no big deal.

LAURA: I wouldn't know. I don't even know.

CHRIS: That's all right. You know, it actually– It sterilized me, actually, I'm quite glad. It has very dirty properties. Anyone that would put it between their legs to fly around would be in horrible danger. Horrible danger. So it's actually probably for the better.

SAM: Communicable diseases?

CHRIS: Yeah, so many STDs. It's really just like a disease tampon, is really what it is.

LIAM: A what? Is that like a magic candle?

CHRIS: It's sort of like a magic candle.

LAURA: A tragedy candle.

CHRIS: It's a tragedy candle.

TALIESIN: A Blanston candle.

CHRIS: Yes.

LIAM: I don't understand sorcery at all.

MATT: At this point, you hear the flickering of flame and the portal itself has begun to expand even further, glowing brighter.

MARISHA: Keyleth throws up a Skywrite spell and says, we're taking the portal.

MATT: Okay. As this is happening, the flames themselves grow higher and higher. The lava begins to boil and roil. As you guys all move up to the side, you can see the lava is beginning to (bubbling) splash out and spray bits are starting to scatter as some of the nearby trees tumble over. You can see the four Fire Ashari as well as Korrin come across one of the clearings. The other way, you see what looks to be another salamander gets thrown about 15 feet from the trees, hits the ground, skids, and is motionless as you see Cerkonos with the rest of the Pyrah, the Fire Ashari stepping through. “Keyleth. We saw your symbol. Is it time?”

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: “All right. Let us try to close this rift.” And the rest of the druids all begin to gather around the outside of this portal. As it's flickering, you can see, piercing into the extremely blinding light, Keyleth, you take a moment, and using your attachment to the Fire Ashari and the Fire Elemental Plane from your last passage through it, you can see past the brightness and see beyond the doorway. You can see on the other side, there appears to be probably another half dozen or a dozen or so of a few other elementals and salamanders that are now making their way towards the portal.

MARISHA: I stand next to my father and join the rest of the druids.

LAURA: Grog, you should probably help them with all of your magic powers.

TRAVIS: Do you think so? It feels like it's an intimate thing.

LAURA: Just hold your hands up, hold your hands up.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: All right. As the rest of the Ashari begin to gather around the portal and concentrate, they are managing to hold the rift in its current size. You see as beads of sweat begin to pour down Korrin's face, not used to this type of terrain. He goes (gasps), “We need more power!”

TRAVIS: Okay!

MATT: “If you can aid, whatever you have to bring to this, please, now is the time!” Does anyone wish to help with the ritual?

LAURA: Oh, yeah.

CHRIS: I'll help.

MATT: All right, how would you wish to help?

SAM: What a nice guy he is! Certainly not someone we should swindle!

LIAM: Strange that you would say that.

CHRIS: I would know if someone were trying to swindle me, believe me.

SAM: That's true. That is true!

CHRIS: You all have honest faces. Particularly her, over there. Very honest face. What can I do to help?

MATT: What do you think would lend itself to a fire gate-sealing ritual? It could be a spell, it could be a use of a skill. How would you like to–?

SAM: A candle? Do you have any candles that could aid?

LAURA: Like fiery candles, maybe?

CHRIS: I have a– No, this one casts– This is bright light, there's a thunder candle. Blink candle. Destroy– No, that destroys dexterity. I have a thunder candle, but I don't know if that would work.

MATT: Make an arcana check.

CHRIS: 19.

MATT: 19. The Blink candle, which you crafted from various parts from blink dogs and other creatures that have natural translocation capabilities, might have the capability, as this is a doorway between planes, and teleportation magic is based on creating short-form doorways between similar spaces, might have some impact on the ritual if used properly.

CHRIS: I have this Blink candle. It's formed from various animals that blink and if– that has trans-dimensional properties, very good properties. The best kind of robust properties that I can throw it in, and it might help stop the– from– all of that.

TRAVIS: That makes perfect sense.

CHRIS: Right. So we're all in agreement, then.

SAM: Well-explained!

CHRIS: All right. So I'm going to hand Blink candle to Coral and I'm going to have Coral walk into the portal.

TRAVIS: Brave Coral.

CHRIS: Brave Coral. Fuck, I've lost two and my broom. What a fucking terrible day.

MATT: As Coral takes the candle, (groans) turns around and begins to just slowly melt, steps into the lava.

LIAM: Run, Coral, run!

MATT: Nine points of fire damage to Coral who was already sitting at–

CHRIS: Six.

MATT: And had taken six damage, right? So 15 from 33. Coral's at half health. Coral, as this is rough terrain, gets part of the way there, then continues walking forward the rest of the way. Takes an additional 17 points of damage.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: So that's 32 points of damage. What's Coral's hitpoints? 33 is the max?

LAURA: That's what you said.

MATT: Yep. On the sheet right there. I can read my own text. 33 hit points. Coral, at one hitpoint, gets up to the lava, take the candle and (boof). As the energy expands from it, you can see a ripple, a heat wave ripple, that billows outward. Coral vanishes entirely and the portal shrinks down by about five to six feet, actually closing in its space

CHRIS: Oh, Coral, I forgot to tell you somethi– fuck.

MATT: Suddenly you hear a (zip) and Coral appears about ten, 15 feet in the air–

CHRIS: Oh good, there you are. Listen, did you see my broom?

MATT: Smack! Coral falls those 15 feet, taking six points of bludgeoning damage. Let's see if Coral survives this with Undead Fortitude. Nope. That is a roll of eight versus a total DC of 11 with the damage taken, and Coral just splats like a really, really old orange just slammed into the concrete, just (splatting).

TRAVIS: Like an old orange.

MATT: One of the Fire Ashari goes (cringing, gagging) and just ends up concentrating on holding the gate.

CHRIS: I'm starting to think you're all very bad luck.

MATT: However, that did aid the ritual. We have two more folks who could aid in this ritual.

LAURA: I can use– I don't know if it will help, but I have a really great diamond of awesomeness that's precious.

MATT: How would that help the ritual?

LAURA: I don't know.

MARISHA: Am I a part of the people who could be included in the ritual too?

MATT: Yeah. Oh yeah.

MARISHA: Okay. I am going to cast a 7th-level Plane Shift to help smush it closed.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make a nature roll with advantage. This is your understanding of the natural elements of the world around you and the connection you have with the fire elemental plane.

LAURA: I don't know how this magic stuff works.

TRAVIS: Oh, I'll teach you later.

MARISHA: 12. Oh, with advantage. 23

MATT: 23. As you begin to concentrate, your hands instinctively burst into flames to coalesce your connection to the Fire Elemental Plane. As you complete the Plane Shift spell, your form shimmers for a second, and for a moment it looks like she's only partially there. She's actually translucent, as flames begin to lick up the sides of her body. At this point, you can see the lava flow in the mountain begins to slow and the bubbling begins to come to a stillness. The portal itself shimmers again and then shrinks down to the size of a normal doorway, about five foot by ten foot tall, and it's just barely holding on. As you're concentrating on holding it in its place, you can see now the rest of the druids around are sweating profusely. Who wishes to take on the last part of this ritual?

TRAVIS: I have a Firebrand Warhammer. I could hit it. Anybody else got anything better?

LAURA: Do you have any magic stuff, Scanlan?

SAM: I can inspire them. I mean…

TRAVIS: Your Dimension Door?

MARISHA: Do you have your Dimension Door?

SAM: Dimension Door what?

MARISHA: A door. I did Planar Binding, which technically really wasn't supposed to do what I just did–

MATT: Planar Shift you said.

MARISHA: Planar Shift, I mean, yes. 7th-level.

MATT: Finding ways to tailor magic essences into this type of a ritual.

SAM: Do I know that that will work or help?

MATT: You don't know. You'll find out. However you wish to aid this ritual and justify how it would be helpful in this instance.

LIAM: There's something I could do.

TRAVIS: Yeah, spit it up.

LIAM: I whip the Cape of the Mountebank out of my pocket and run at that door and jump off the edge and just try to balloon umbrella it down over with that red cape.

MATT: Hmm. Okay.

LAURA: Matador it.

LIAM: I'm doing it. I'm matadoring it.

MATT: Okay. I will say– hmm. How do I make this work? I'm going to want you to go ahead and make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Okay. That is a 25.

MATT: All right. You rush up, leaping off the side, spinning in the air. As you, do you unfurl the cape and turn it into a limited parachute-type projection and as you slam it down towards– I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom check to see if you have the capability of triggering the magic of the item at the right time to be impactful.

LIAM: Cross your fingers, everybody.

TRAVIS: Come on, Vax.

LIAM: No bonuses here.

CHRIS: No whammys.

MARISHA: We don't still have our fancy feast, do we?

SAM: Oh, yeah, are we still feasting?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: So what does that mean? Advantage.

MARISHA: You have advantage on wisdom throws.

LIAM: That's better. That is 13.

MATT: 13? That's better. As you come down, you take the cape and encase, you trigger the magic, at which point the remainder of this doorway just blinks out entirely, the cape gone. The doorway, gone.

LIAM: Hot hot hot hot hot.

MATT: As Vax (splashing) right into the lava.

MARISHA: I take a Grasping Vine from the edge and try and yank him back.

MATT: Okay. You take 22 points of fire damage as you splat into the lava.

LIAM: The Deathwalker's Ward is set to fire.

MATT: So it resisted to 11. So you (splashing) in the lava. All of a sudden, images flash in your head of the time that you lost most of your foot in the Underdark. And you go–

LIAM: No no no no no no no no!

MATT: And, before you can even react, all of a sudden, something wraps around your waist and yanks you out as a vine pulls you in an arc and slams you into the hard obsidian floor on the outside of the lava flow. The rest of you gather there as the rest of the druids finish their concentration. The lava pools themselves have gone still and you can see elements beginning to cool, and there's currently no sign of a tear between the elemental planes that's currently bursting through.

TRAVIS: Nice job, Vax!

LIAM: Where am I, am I near her, on the ground?

MATT: She would be back here. You're on the ground, right next to a dancing skeleton.

MARISHA: I moved up, I moved up. I would be over there.

MATT: You would be part of the ritual. But you fell next to the dancing skeleton.

LIAM: Okay, I look at the skeleton, I look at her. I look at the skeleton, I look at her. I'm an idiot.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, I already knew that. It's fine. You did good. You did good. I reach down and I help him on his feet. How bad are you?

LIAM: I'm pretty bad.

MARISHA: I Cure Wounds, level four.

TRAVIS: Yeah, cool, do that. I'm going to walk out of the lava now.

(laughter)

MATT: Taking another 21 points of fire damage. Reduced to ten. The druids look around and give a nod of acceptance. All of them acknowledge you, who they have not met and don't understand quite where you came from or why you're here. One of them, who is currently missing an arm on one hand. Dark, weathered skin, long jet black hair cruising down to the middle of his back, approaches you and his one right arm he puts on the shoulder and says, into your eyes, “I do not know you, friend, but you have come to our aid at an hour when we really required it.”

CHRIS: Great, sure, I just thought I'd come and lose a couple of thralls and my fucking broom. But great to be here. Everyone seems nice. Especially her, she's great.

MATT: He removes his hand. “Very well.”

CHRIS: Let me know if I can do anything else! Do you want a candle?

MATT: “Candle?”

CHRIS: Well, I make candles, just various candles.

MATT: He does this and his finger bursts into flame and you can see a flame flickering. “We do not need candles here in Pyrah. But thank you.”

LIAM: Is that the finger? Or is that the finger?

MATT: Insinuated, actual finger. At this point, Korrin, your father, approaches you and places a hand on your shoulder, and turns you around to look you in the face. And you can see there's smears of dirt and still glistening from sweat from the whole ritual and looks a bit weathered and winded from the experience. "Keyleth, I'm proud of you.”

MARISHA: Thank you, Father.

MATT: I think we will stay here and help the Pyrah try and rebuild.

MARISHA: Oh. Okay.

MATT: And he takes your chin and pulls it up and looks you in the face with a broad smile on his face, he says, “The road before you, Keyleth, is hard and fraught with loss and sadness. To live is to struggle against the void. But it's those moments of darkness that define the joy of the world around them. Learn from the loss and push forward as a beacon of perseverance, of hope for life after pain. This is one of the pillars of strength of a leader. One that I have learned with the loss of your mother. But you are my beacon of hope. And to many more than you even expect.” And he looks back towards the four other members of the Zephrah tribe that are all just looking at you, and they nod.

MARISHA: I hope I do not fail you, Father.

MATT: “I trust you will not. Go forth, while we stay here. I want you to grasp your destiny, vanquish this terrible beast that lies on the shores of Tal'Dorei. Complete your Aramente.”

MARISHA: How do you know that this is my destiny?

MATT: “Whatever your destiny is, grasp it. But you've chosen this path, and all destiny really is, is the choices you make, leading towards a goal that perhaps you do not yet understand. But when you've returned I wish for you to teach us the wisdom you've gained on this journey.”

MARISHA: Kaitiakè, father.

MATT: “Kaitiakè, Keyleth.”

CHRIS: Did you see a broom lying around anywhere?

MATT: “No.”

CHRIS: Sorry.

MATT: “It's all right, we will keep an eye out for it though.”

CHRIS: Please. And tell everyone #feelthegern. They'll know what it means.

SAM: What is a hashtag?

CHRIS: I'll explain later.

SAM: All right.

MATT: “Well, unless there's anything else, we have business to attend to in restoring this area. I wish you all great luck. ”

MARISHA: Korrin, If we should ever need you– if I should ever need you, or the assistance of the Ashari, what is the best way to get hold of you?

MATT: “Call to Zephrah. Come home. And we will come with you.” As he looks over all of you, giving each a look of– a nod of respect and appreciation– (“Don't You” by Simple Minds plays)

LIAM: Wow.

TALIESIN: I felt it coming.

MATT: Glances past to Grog, Vex, and lingers a very long look on Vax, and just gives you a nod.

LAURA: His diamond earring is glistening in the light.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Did I stutter?

MATT: “Stay safe. For her sake.” And Korrin turns around and walks back, as the rest of the Zephrah Ashari walk along with him. You, through all this chaos, get a little bored and frustrated with all this weird nonsensical stuff, look at the ground and realize there's a lot of hidden treasures scattered amongst this vicinity.

CHRIS: Probably so. You know, I might stay behind a bit and dig around for a little while. You know, candlemaking's a difficult business.

SAM: Is it now?

CHRIS: Aye.

TALIESIN: Well, if you're ever looking for more customers, you'll always find them in Whitestone. So, if you make your way north.

CHRIS: Excellent!

TALIESIN: You're always welcome.

CHRIS: Thank you. Could someone heal me a bit before you leave? I'm quite singed.

TALIESIN: Oh my!

LAURA: I walk up and I cast Cure Wounds on him. I've got jack shit.

CHRIS: She's so nice!

SAM: She's great.

CHRIS: She's the nicest!

LAURA: At a level three for you!

CHRIS: That's really nice of you.

TRAVIS: You're a really good person.

LAURA: I am! I am. 20 points.

TRAVIS: Holy shit!

SAM: Vex?

LAURA: Yes?

SAM: This gentleman has done nothing but aid us.

LAURA: I know, and it's so kind of him.

SAM: He's suffered the loss of three of his–

LAURA: Look at all these treasures he's going to find here for his candles!

SAM: Is there anything we can do to repay you?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: That scimitar that the genie had, did it fall into the lava?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: As you look down and say “all these treasures around,” you get a closer look. The ground here is rugged rock and black ash and dust and pieces of charred and burnt, petrified wood, and right around the outskirts of where the lava pool is, you can see what look to be broken slivers of soot-covered dragon scale just peppered throughout the landscape. Barely visible until you look real close, thanks to the constant barrage of blacken soot and dust that falls from the nearby area.

LAURA: Do you collect dragon scales for your candles?

CHRIS: Oh, I forgot to tell you. I sold out my own kind because I was enslaved by dragons who had tails who consider themselves royalty and therefore better than me and I don't have a tail. And so I spent my whole life trying to figure out how to turn scales into weaponized candles. Anyway, got to go, everyone have a great time! Thank you!

MATT: You just leave?

CHRIS: I leave! Scoop up some of the few scales and piss off.

MATT: You guys watch as Gern Blanston begins walking around and, like a gutter snipe, or one of the people on the beach with a metal detector, starts combing through.

CHRIS: (singing) Don't you forget about me!

LAURA: Gern! Before you leave!

CHRIS: Aye?

LAURA: You know, we're killing a very, very large dragon, hopefully rather soon.

CHRIS: Very interesting! Where would that be?

LAURA: Well, he's in Emon now, but we're gathering our forces in Whitestone.

CHRIS: Good to know! I might catch up with you later on.

LAURA: All right!

CHRIS: Good-bye!

LAURA: Good-bye!

MATT: Which she says with a strange doppler effect even though he's but 20 feet away from you and has chosen to ignore the rest of your party to go about his business.

CHRIS: It's just like an NPC, just Skyrim.

MATT: As your skeleton's in the background dancing.

CHRIS: There's only one left!

MATT: Yeah, only one left.

TALIESIN: He's freezeframe.

MATT: There's plenty of charred corpses littered all over this mountaintop you could make undead from.

TRAVIS: Does the skeleton go with him, or does it stay?

MATT: It follows him. All right, so the rest of you, what is your next course of action?

LIAM: I sidle up next to my sister and stand there for a moment and deadpan say, boy, the more things change, the more they stay the same. And then I walk away.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Keyleth, why don't we head home?

MARISHA: Which home?

SAM: How do we do that?

TRAVIS: Whitestone.

LAURA: Can we get to Whitestone, can you bamf us?

MARISHA: I can, yeah.

LAURA: Let's go there and rest up.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Hey, thank you guys. Thanks for coming, for helping.

LAURA: Your dad is very noble.

SAM: Your homeland is, you know, I mean, the volcano, the magma, the monsters, the fire torn in the sky, it's lovely. It's charming, really.

MARISHA: Thank you, Scanlan. This isn't my homeland. I appreciate how well you know me after all these years.

SAM: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you lived here.

MARISHA: No, this is the Fire Ashari's camp.

SAM: You're not a Fire Ashari?

MARISHA: I'm an Air Ashari.

LIAM: It's all right, it's only been a couple of years.

SAM: Aren't all Ashari the same?

MARISHA: You know what, Scanlan, that might be the most questions you've ever asked me about myself.

SAM: I don't even know your last name!

MARISHA: I don't have one.

SAM: Hey, what's a hashtag?

LAURA: Hey, Gern! Gern! Gern! Gern!

CHRIS: Hello?

LAURA: Is it just dragon scales, or is it any dragon parts you use?

CHRIS: You know, mainly dragon scales, but I do like to see them blown apart, so that part's merely for pleasure.

TRAVIS: You could give him five pounds of dragon scales.

MARISHA: I pick a tree that's big enough to fit all of our fat faces.

MATT: You already cast Transport via Plants this day, that's how you got here.

MARISHA: Maybe we should rest.

TRAVIS: Do you need me to help you with the tree spell?

LAURA: Maybe we should just sleep here and rest up and spend the night, wake up in the morning, head back to Whitestone.

TALIESIN: He's going to still be there next week, by the way.

MATT: And with that, Vox Machina leaves Gern to his business as they go and camp out at the base of the mountain.

CHRIS: Did someone lose an orb?

MATT: And with that, we're going to finish tonight's game!

(laughter)

CHRIS: Can I say something from this realm?

MATT: Yeah.

CHRIS: I'm delighted. We showed a thing tonight on @Midnight of someone lounge singing Stand By Me to Donald Trump and putting the name Donald in there, so I told everyone, please tweet that to @Wilw, and people are fucking doing it.

TRAVIS: That's amazing.

CHRIS: So, if you find the guy singing a very poor rendition of Stand by Me to Donald Trump, please send it to Wil Wheaton, he'll love it! Favorite thing in the world!

MATT: You heard it, guys. Critters' call to action. Make it happen.

CHRIS: #FeelTheGern.

LIAM: CritterStrong.

SAM: Feel the Gern.

MATT: All right, well, guys. Chris, thank you so much for coming and hanging out with us.

CHRIS: Thank you, this was so much fun!

TALIESIN: A week without crying!

TRAVIS: Feel the Gern!

CHRIS: The best DM in the world! This is a wonderful party, and you're all fantastic. Thank you so much. I'm not even upset that you stole my broom.

LAURA: Don't judge me, Scanlan, you didn't see me do it!

SAM: I didn't! I didn't!

LAURA: Sam's just judging.

SAM: I'm judging you, Laura Bailey.

(laughter)

MATT: There is a definite distinction.

LIAM: Don't worry, everyone will judge you when you take it out and use it for the first time.

SAM: Vex is fine. Laura Bailey? Awful.

TRAVIS: She's wanted to fly so much.

LIAM: Beat him by one.

MATT: Well, thank you all so very much for watching tonight. Hope you enjoyed tonight's episode. We return next Thursday, 7PM Pacific time once again to pick up the next length of Vox Machina's journey. Everyone, show your love on Twitter to Chris, @hardwick. Thank you again for coming and being an amazing wizard for all of us. And is it Thursday yet? See some of you guys tomorrow, and if not, next week.

TRAVIS: Peace out! 

Part I

MATT: Fantastic. Well, cool, guys, then let's go ahead and get this show on the road. So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having to traverse the world in search of artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, ancient items of power used in massive-scale warfare in ancient moments of history, they had acquired one from a sunken temple of the Champion of the Raven Queen, taking the life, and thankfully not permanently, of Vex'ahlia over here. The party then retrieved their first artifact and made their way towards the Pyrah tribe of the Ashari druids, the Fire Guardians of the Gate to the Elemental Plane of Fire, which apparently Thordak, the Cinder King, the great red dragon that helms the Chroma Conclave that just tore through all of the civilization of Tal'Dorei, emerged from.

MARISHA: “Apparently.”

MATT: “Apparently.” By that I mean, confirmed, universally, tore through. You guys went there, found a surviving faction of the Pyrah tribe, including Cerkonos, their Headmaster, as well as a few members of your tribe, the Air Ashari, Keyleth. And your father. You went towards the remnants of the Cindergrove, ran into an ally, a strange blue-scaled dragonborn by the name of Gern Blanston, master of necromancy and candle-making and combining the two for interesting effect. You fought your way through the Cindergrove, tearing through elementals, encasing efreets in hamster balls and holding them aloft for extended periods of time. Worked out well. And then managed to seal the Gate with the help of the druidic tribes there, Gern, and the intrepid adventurers of Vox Machina. After which, you went to spend the evening there on the mountainside to rest before continuing your journey to wherever that next step may be. So the rest of you are beaten, bruised, and winded over the previous series of battles and the accomplishment you achieved here at the top of the caldera of this mountain. The erupting, seismic energies and molten rock that once spewed from the center of this rift have calmed, and the gate once again has been sealed to its dormant, controllable, and watchable size. You guys are free to make camp wherever you'd like.

LAURA: We already rested, though?

MATT: Not yet, you're about to set up rest. There are sections, as you're walking out of the Cindergrove, that you can see members of the Pyrah tribe are pulling up still-functional pieces of huts and tents and things that were destroyed when Thordak tore through the rift, and they're beginning to reassemble a place to stay for the evening for themselves, so if you wish to stay among the Pyrah tribe for the evening, it seems to be at least a relatively safe bet.

LAURA: What do you think, Keyleth? I mean, it's your family.

MARISHA: That's up to you guys. I don't think I can transport us out of here until we sleep.

TALIESIN: I have no problem sleeping here this evening.

LAURA: I'm rather winded, actually.

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: What are all the tents and houses made of, anyway?

MATT: Most of them are made of pieces of stone. The actual blackened grey rock of this mountain, elements of it have been fused together with bits of glass to forge these thick, very sturdy walls when they aren't being torn through by a colossal red dragon.

TRAVIS: (scoffs) Whatever.

MATT: So they're being brought back up, druids are using what remains of their powers from the fight today to assemble more walls of stone, and they're basically creating ramshackle living spaces using their magic.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and assist them, because I didn't use any 5th-level spells.

MATT: All right. So you begin throwing up some stone walls to help build a small shelter for the evening. The rest–

LAURA: Is Gern completely out of the picture, have we lost sight of him?

MATT: You've lost sight of Gern, Gern went back into the Cindergrove and began essentially gutter-sniping what pieces of red dragon scales he could locate in the vicinity. He has not been seen since that moment. Who knows to where he wandered?

SAM: Key-leth? If I may.

MARISHA: Yes, Scan-lan?

LAURA: You said that so weird.

SAM: That's how it's spelled: Key-leth.

MARISHA: So regal of you, Scan-lan.

SAM: Are your people comfortable in these little huts and stuff, are we going to be safe tonight? Because I could assist us with slightly better shelter.

LAURA: Like how, what do you mean?

SAM: With my magical… dalliances.

TRAVIS: Is that another name for your penis?

SAM: It is.

LAURA: Are you going to poop us a bed?

SAM: I could poop us a bed. Are we okay here, safely, or should I get us something special?

TALIESIN: With your dalliance.

SAM: With my dalliance.

TALIESIN: I think your penis may have more names than I do, I'm kind of horrified.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want a house from your balls and bits.

MARISHA: I mean, my people have lived here for thousands of years.

SAM: Yes, but their shelters are destroyed now, so.

MARISHA: Sure, I mean, generally we're safe as long as dragons aren't smashing through the village, but I mean, if you have an alternative.

SAM: I have an alternative. I could do a bit of dalliancing.

MARISHA: You know, you've talked about it so much now, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Is this going to be self-dalliance or are you going to need a partner or two?

LAURA: I know, are we just going to watch you diddle yourself? Let's have it.

TRAVIS: Mushroom-stamp the land, let's go.

SAM: No, no, so I will take a minute and cast Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion.

TALIESIN: I am so proud of you. I am so proud of you.

MATT: Okay, so you guys watch as Scanlan rummages through some of his side pouches and belongings, pulls out a few elements, a small doorway carved from ivory. He pulls out a piece of polished marble, a tiny silver spoon, and puts them on the ground in front of him, closes his eyes for a second–

SAM: Can I enchant it with a little song or something?

MATT: Yes you may.

SAM: So I'll sing (singing) It's a sick house, it's mighty mighty, it's letting it all hang– that's it.

MATT: You guys are mildly confused, but as he picks up the items, you can see the door sets off this small spark of white energy that glistens in the air, hovers, and then creates a somewhat shimmering doorway, just standing in the center of the space in front of you.

LAURA: What?

SAM: Would you like to come into my place? It's a little modest shack that I've been working on.

LAURA: Is this a teleport sort of–

TRAVIS: It's a door.

MARISHA: Is this a joke?

TALIESIN: There's nothing on the other side of it, is there?

SAM: No, no, it's a place where we can rest for the evening, totally safe and comfortable. It's on a slightly different plane from ours, so nothing can actually hurt us there or get to us.

LAURA: Is it that fire plane where we just– there's no dragons in that plane?

SAM: I haven't checked in a while. Actually, this is my first time doing this.

TRAVIS: We should send somebody ahead first to check. Vax, are you up to the bit?

LIAM: Am I up to what? What was that, Grog?

SAM: It's totally safe, don't worry, don't worry.

LIAM: As long as you're not going to whip out the cube, then lead the way.

SAM: How many people can fit in there? It's pretty big.

MATT: Any creature you designate when you cast the spell to enter. So you could say the entire Pyrah tribe if you wanted.

LAURA: What?

SAM: Everybody.

MATT: Everybody in the group, or the Pyrah?

SAM: How many are there?

MATT: Here, there's close to 35, including the Zephrah.

LAURA: Wait, could you technically do this with any refugees? I mean, where do they go when you make the door go away?

SAM: This is my place, all right? I don't want any riffraff in there. Listen, there's a guest list, there's a guy at the door–

TALIESIN: I can solve this really quickly. Are any of the Pyrah tribe hot?

LAURA: Like, attractive?

TALIESIN: Attractive.

LAURA: They're all hot.

MATT: Through the soot and ash and the rather somber atmosphere here that paints them as a people that are the survivors of a horrible calamity, beyond that, there's probably a few that you'd consider attractive, sure, if you're that kind of person.

TALIESIN: That one over there was looking at you, I saw her wink at you earlier.

SAM: Oh, really?

TALIESIN: You should impress her.

SAM: The one with her face just sheared off?

TALIESIN: Yeah, why not?

SAM: All right. Not really my type. I like full-faced people, but I'll take it, I'll take my chance.

TALIESIN: I think that's big of you.

LAURA: So terrible.

SAM: You know, if there's anyone from your immediate family that you'd like to give lodging to tonight– okay, we'll take them all, we'll take them all in. We'll take them all in.

MARISHA: Sure. Do you want to tell them? It is your humble abode.

SAM: Ashari people!

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: You see some of them stop and drop the rocks they're currently holding and building some of these small shelters.

SAM: Don't worry about your shelter for tonight. Let Scanlan Shorthalt take care of you, in every way, shape, and form imaginable. Come with me through this weird magic door into another plane. Believe me, it's going to be okay.

MATT: They all look at each other with a strange glance and continue building their current shelters.

LAURA: Why the fuck not? And I walk on through.

MATT: Okay. You open the door, and as you grab it, it is a solid door, and the handle spins, you look inside, and within you see an incredibly lush foyer to a grand mansion, a 25-, 30-foot ceiling made of marble and dark woods, you see a two-part staircase that splits off onto a second-tier floor, you hear soft music playing in the distance, and immediately you see two somewhat ethereal servants come down, dressed as a butler and a maid, they come down, with an echoing voice that say, “How might we be of service?”

LAURA: What the fuck.

SAM: Hi. I step in after her. Yes, I've made some changes to the place. Living quarters are upstairs, there's a kitchen, parlor, game room over there, billiards, all sorts of stuff. We have a music room. There are a hundred attendants who can wait on us. I've assigned some of them specific jobs. Five are going to play music for us wherever we want, especially during our meals.

MATT: “Let me take your things, Master.”

SAM: Oh, yes, yes, here.

TRAVIS: I come inside and I see the ethereal things, I'm like, ghosts! And I take Craven Edge and I swing at the ethereal sumbitch!

SAM: Are you attacking my attendants?

TRAVIS: No, the ghosts in your house!

SAM: They're my people!

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: By the time you go to stop him, three of the servants that have grabbed a few of your belongings and been carrying away, are swung at, Craven Edge passing through, and their energy dispersing, and their contents of whatever they're carrying drop and clink to the ground.

LAURA: No!

SAM: Jesus Christ–

TRAVIS: Thank god I'm here.

SAM: Grog, Grog, easy. Easy. They're not ghosts, they're not ghosts. They are supernatural spirits– some would say ghosts– that are good, they serve us, they serve me–

LAURA: Wait, do you pay them or do they just work for you?

SAM: They're slave ghosts.

LAURA: This is terrible. Scanlan!

SAM: Well, no, they like it for some reason.

LAURA: Are you sure?

SAM: I can command them to do literally anything and they like it.

LAURA: Have you asked them?

SAM: Watch this. Watch this. I call one over. You there, you there.

MATT: This maid comes over, a plumper older woman, no feet, just drifting along with this path of mist behind her. “Yes, Master?”

SAM: Can you please braid my chest hair?

MATT: “But of course, Master.”

SAM: Do you like this job?

MATT: “It is my purpose, Master.”

SAM: See? This is what I'm telling you.

LAURA: Your purpose, do you enjoy your purpose?

MATT: “What does one but enjoy their purpose in life?” And continues braiding his chest hair, these tiny little hairs, doing a very good job. It's not very long, but sure enough, there is a pattern.

LAURA: Wow.

SAM: Thank you, you're dismissed. Back to the music room.

MATT: “Of course, Master.”

LAURA: Do you tip them?

SAM: You can tip me, I'll pass it out later.

LAURA: I believe you.

TRAVIS: Hey, you there, you, ghostie, do you have any ale in this establishment?

MATT: “But of course, sir. We have an entire winery as part of the mansion.”

LAURA: What in the fuck is this place? How are you doing this?

TRAVIS: Bring your most expensive frosty glass of ale.

MATT: “All right.”

LIAM: I pull Scanlan over to the side. Have you always been able to do this? Have you been holding out on us, man?

SAM: It never occurred to me to do this before, for some reason.

TRAVIS: You shouldn't be Burt Reynolds, you should be Hugh Hefner from now on.

SAM: No, this is a skill that I recently acquired. I would not hold out on you. This is a new skill that I've just learned, and I'm still making improvements to the house. You'll see that our dining room has a portrait of myself in it. Not the one that I had commissioned, but one that I had envisioned before. It's just me in a smoking jacket standing in front of a fireplace with me in a smoking jacket above it, Stephen Colbert-style.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: And we all have our own separate rooms. All of the beds are circular, they all have a mirror over them.

TRAVIS: Oh my god. It's Graceland!

SAM: Mine is a waterbed, so be careful.

LAURA: So wait, you built this entire castle, so how do we know that you haven't installed creepy spy things into our rooms, Scanlan?

MARISHA: Yeah, little peep holes.

LAURA: I don't trust you.

SAM: On we go to the rest of it!

TRAVIS: I'm waiting on my beer.

TALIESIN: I've got a great idea. Let's get some beer, let's take a rest, and in the morning we can go to the game room, get some dice and some paper–

TRAVIS: A game within a game. The Inception (bass note).

TALIESIN: It's called Meta and Dragons, we're just going to see how deep it goes.

MARISHA: Keyleth just gets a nosebleed for no reason. She's not sure why.

TALIESIN: Had to get that out of my system.

MATT: An ever-spinning top on the banister. At this point, Grog, you can see that the servant you had sent off comes up with a very large, somewhat spectral flagon, that upon handing it to you, turns into a solid metallic form, and inside–

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: – a very, very finely chilled, very nice-smelling wine.

TRAVIS: I put my hand up for a high-five.

MATT: It makes contact.

TRAVIS: It does?

MATT: A little cushy, but it does make contact, yes.

TRAVIS: Wait, these servants will do whatever you want to do?

LAURA: That is terrible, it's a terrible path you're going down right now, I am uncomfortable with this–

SAM: I am way ahead of you, Grog. I'm way ahead of you. As I said, there are 100 servants here. 50 of them are assigned to me and my own personal service. The rest are available to you in whatever capacity you'd like them.

TRAVIS: This is going to be the best night ever.

MARISHA: Let me go try and gather the rest of the Ashari.

LAURA: So uncomfortable right now.

MARISHA: Can I get a plate of food from one of the ghosts as proof?

TRAVIS: It's about to get Caligula up in this bitch.

MATT: The servants gather up a platter of food, piling up, grapes and meats and cured ham.

MARISHA: I just pop out of the door and address the people.

MATT: As soon as you pop out of the door, it all turns to smoke and dissipates.

MARISHA: Aw, son of a– Hey, guys, hey. It's okay. It's actually really nice. It's been rough, why don't we all take a night off and everyone come in and get some food. Take a night off.

LAURA: Scanlan, where are we staying? Where's our rooms?

SAM: Rooms are all upstairs. There's individual rooms for all of us. Mine is at the end of the hallway, and is slightly bigger than the rest. You will find comfortable beds and things in every room. The two rooms next to mine are reserved–

LAURA: For?

SAM: One is for Pike, the other across the hallway is for Kaylie, just in case she ever drops by.

LAURA: That's really sweet.

TALIESIN: Weird, but sweet.

SAM: Don't worry, it's not weird.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's weird.

SAM: Keeping her close to my heart.

LAURA: It's super-duper weird. It's really weird.

SAM: It's not super-duper– fine, fine, forget it. When you have a daughter, you can worry about her as much as I do.

MATT: At this point, Keyleth returns with a few straggler Pyrah tribal members that come in, looking about, surprised, bewildered, and some of them a little freaked out by this transdimensional space they just stepped into, TARDIS-style. Servants come up and start helping them. Some of them are still clutching the rocks they were building as they pass it off and start making their way out to various rooms to inspect the mansion. A few stay back to continue what they were already building, ensuring future establishments to sleep once you guys have left. So yeah, you guys are welcome to rest for the evening, if you'd like.

LAURA: Is the door protected? Can anybody come in, or is it only if you invite them?

SAM: Only invited.

LAURA: This is the best fucking mansion ever. How– I mean– what?

TRAVIS: How many times can you do this?

SAM: Once a day, but that's all we'll need, right?

TRAVIS: Shit, yeah. Wait, wait, wait, so if we were in a fight and things went really south–

SAM: We could take a break.

LAURA: (gasps) No, but they could run away, it's not like time freezes.

SAM: It does take a while to cast.

MATT: It takes a minute, so yeah.

SAM: It takes a minute to cast.

MARISHA: So it can't be the middle of a battle, sure.

LIAM: Is there anything else you can do that you haven't– can you make an army of unicorns or a giant in a dancing dress, or is this the extent of what you can do?

SAM: I'd like to keep a few secrets, if you don't mind.

TRAVIS: Can you make fart sounds with your armpits?

SAM: Yes. I can bend my thumb all the way back.

LAURA: I pull out my crystal and I call upon the great power of Trinket. I choose you.

MATT: With a flash of deep blue and black light, Trinket emerges (bear noises).

LAURA: We have a mansion! You built a Trinket room.

SAM: You know what, I totally forgot to build Trinket a place to sleep.

LAURA: That's okay, he'll stay in Kaylie's room for the time being, and then–

SAM: No no, Kaylie's room is locked.

LAURA: Pike loves him, I bet he wouldn't mind–

SAM: Let me just think about this for a second. There's the third pantry. The third pantry could possibly work. It has some just mostly– no, no, it's full, we can't use that.

LAURA: Do you have any rooms with very high ceilings?

SAM: The front.

LAURA: The very front?

SAM: The front hall.

LAURA: But I mean somewhere I could put a bed for myself and Trinket with very high ceilings.

SAM: All right, yes, there's a whole basement area. It's a large space.

LAURA: Wonderful. I'll move my bed down there.

SAM: It's for training and working with weapons.

LAURA: That'll be perfect. Trinket needs to train.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll go down there and I'll stay with Trinket.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to train a little, want to work out a bit.

LAURA: Totally. I understand.

TRAVIS: Yep. I need a target, though. Hey, can you call one of those little ghostly guys over?

SAM: You can have five of them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right, fine. The first one of you that brings me a cow wins.

MATT: They all look at each other. “Right away, sir.” And all five of them drift off. A moment later, they all return with a spectral cow.

MARISHA: Like five cows, they each return with one?

MATT: No, each one of them is just traveling with one cow, they've all brought you together one spectral cow.

TRAVIS: It's like a bunch of Mr. Meeseeks with cows. Do I get to pick a cow? There's just one cow?

MATT: There's just one cow.

TRAVIS: Right. So can I touch the cow on the head?

MATT: You touch it, and it has weight to it, it has surface area.

LAURA: No, we're killing cows, we're killing, we're killing poor servants–

TRAVIS: We're not killing anything! And I punch the cow in the nose.

SAM: Jesus!

LAURA: That's so dark!

TRAVIS: No, look, I'm just seeing what it is. Stay, Bessie.

MARISHA: Grog, you just punched a cow in the face.

TRAVIS: What, I'm just seeing if it bled. Did the nose bleed?

MATT: There is no blood.

TRAVIS: I punch it again.

LAURA: Grog! Stop it!

TRAVIS: I took a really easy punch.

LAURA: Look, you're hurting it!

TRAVIS: No, I'm not. Is there any blood?

MATT: No blood.

LAURA: Trinket blocks it.

TRAVIS: Never mind. You know what, I changed my mind, I don't need a cow. I'm going to go stay in a normal room.

LAURA: No, Grog, actually, I think you should train for a little bit at least. Just come down to the basement and maybe train for a little bit.

TRAVIS: All right.

LIAM: I'm sorry, where did that cow come from? I call one of the servants over to me. Can you get anything? Could you get me a small squid?

MATT: They all look at each other and shake their head. “No, sir, we have limited resources here. “The cow, we happened to have one.”

LIAM: Is that a real cow, Scanlan, or was that some sort of ghost cow?

SAM: Ghost cow.

MATT: At which point the cow disperses.

TRAVIS: I punched it so hard it exploded.

TALIESIN: The ghost of a dinner you've already eaten, come back to haunt you.

LAURA: I go down to the training room. And I stop the servant and go, can you bring down a bed for me?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Thank you. Grog, can we train, please?

TRAVIS: Yeah. You want to train with me?

LAURA: Yes, I think I need to train with you, specifically.

TRAVIS: All right. Always a good time to get better, I guess.

SAM: What's going on over there?

MARISHA: I don't know.

MATT: You guys walk out of the foyer into the main hallway, and at the end to the left you see a doorway appear where there wasn't one before. It opens up on its own, and as you walk you can see stairs that lead down and into a basement chamber that has a sand pit surrounded by brick. There are a series of wooden training dummies and various training accoutrements. There are chains hanging from the ceiling for lifting and climbing exercises. There is a basic set of weapons against the weapon rack and a basic set of armor on the other set.

SAM: Muscle-ups.

TRAVIS: Rope climbs.

TALIESIN: Are we really about to pretend to do Crossfit? Is that a thing that's actually about to happen?

SAM: Is there a big thing that says WoD on it?

TRAVIS: Wizard of the Day?

LAURA: The minute we get downstairs, I start pawing into the Bag of Holding.

TRAVIS: What are you doing?

LAURA: I just need to (grunts).

(a phone dings)

SAM: Ooh, how did you do that?

TRAVIS: That was awesome.

TRAVIS: What did you grab?

LAURA: Oh, just this cleaning utensil, is all. Are we by ourselves? Nobody else came down, right?

MATT: Just the two of you.

LAURA: Yeah, I just wanted to do some cleaning with this broom that I–

TRAVIS: But this is where you train.

LAURA: I put it in the Bag of Holding before. Maybe you can train over there on those dummies, and I can just sweep up some of this sand that's around in this area right here.

TRAVIS: I thought we were going to train. I thought we were going to fight.

LAURA: Yes. Well, Trinket actually wanted some training with his cannonball. If you will stand still so he can run into you a few times, that would be swell.

TRAVIS: I feel like there's a problem with this idea, but I'm not sure what it is, so I do it.

MATT: Okay. Trinket comes along with you and, in a very confused manner, attempts to train with you for a short time. It's been a while since you wrestled a bear, so it's kind of fun at times.

LAURA: It's fun, right?

TRAVIS: Look, I know I usually hit back, but apparently your mum thinks you can cannonball into me, so give it a go.

LAURA: Go ahead and try, Trinket!

MATT: Trinket backs up (bear growling), looks over at you again like, “Are you sure?” Across the sand flooring into a giant rolling attack towards you.

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck.

MATT: That is going to be… What's Trinket's attack bonus?

LAURA: Oh, God, you're really doing it.

TRAVIS: Yes!

LAURA: Yes, that's the point of this, to get Trinket to run into you is the point. His attack bonus is plus eight.

MATT: Plus eight, that's a 23 to hit.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that hits.

MATT: You go ahead and take seven points of bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: And you're knocked prone!

MATT: Go ahead and make a strength saving throw.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Okay. 26.

MATT: So Trinket rams into you, and you hold firm and flex. Conversely, the giant bear bounces off, stumbles back onto Trinket's butt.

TRAVIS: That was pretty good! I liked it a lot!

MATT: Licks you right along the face, beard cowlicks up a little bit.

TRAVIS: I think this might be a good look for me. How do I get it to stay?

LAURA: While all that is going on, I have a broom in my hand.

MATT: You do.

TRAVIS: I start climbing all over the walls.

LAURA: I put it between my legs and try to sit on it.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Weirdly, I'm doing the same thing upstairs.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Is one of your servants named Broom?

LAURA: And I jump in the air a little bit.

MATT: Hop.

LAURA: Okay. I say, up! Fly! Lift up! Fatty Arbuckle! Shenanigans! Ren and Stimpy, I don't know.

TRAVIS: Rotisserie chicken!

LAURA: Fuck! Grog.

TALIESIN: Perhaps it requires a bad Irish accent.

LAURA: (Irish accent) Fatty Arbuckle!

(laughter)

LAURA: Nothing.

MATT: Nothing.

TRAVIS: Do you usually yell when you clean?

LAURA: (groans) I put the broom on the ground. I walk over and I punch Grog as hard as I can.

TRAVIS: What was that for?

MATT: Grog, it's not very strong.

LAURA: It's not. I'm pretty fucking weak.

TRAVIS: No, I know, but I like to make her feel good about it. Ow!

LAURA: Sorry I hurt you, Grog, I know that was a very strong punch.

TRAVIS: I look at Trinket and wink.

LAURA: Are you guys good? Do you want to keep training?

TRAVIS: Yeah, what are you doing?

LAURA: Nothing! I put the fucking broom back in the Bag of Holding.

TRAVIS: You didn't clean very much.

LAURA: I figured the servants can do it. I walk upstairs.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Can Scanlan cast Sad Trombone?

SAM: We have a music room. I actually have a trombone.

MATT: That's true.

SAM: (sad trombone sound)

MATT: With Vex not there, Trinket gets a little antsy and eventually your training session with Trinket comes to an end as Trinket goes to seek Vex. You can finish your wall climbing in solace.

TRAVIS: All right. I'm good for the night.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: I wanted that cow.

LAURA: I go find Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay. I don't know, I'm just chilling. I'm eating food.

TRAVIS: Eating food.

MARISHA: Relaxing.

LAURA: Hey! Actually– no, I don't want to talk to you. Keyleth. What do you know about magical things? Like a lot?

MARISHA: I'm not great at identifying what they are. I can generally be like, that's magical! But I don't know arcane things, only natural-based magics.

LAURA: Oh, fuck. Thank you so much!

MARISHA: Why?

SAM: Anything I can help you with, Vex?

LAURA: Scanlan! I might need to talk to you, dear.

SAM: Should we retire to my room for this?

LAURA: Why, yes, we should.

SAM: (excited gasp) I was not expecting that.

MARISHA: Keyleth just picks up her plate and awkwardly leaves.

LAURA: I go get the broom from the Bag of Holding again.

SAM: I run up to my room to make sure that everything's neat. Light a bunch of candles.

LAURA: I follow him up and knock on the door.

MATT: Okay. The door opens up at the first knock. (creak)

SAM: I'm lying in bed. Black satin sheets. Oh, I forgot you were coming!

LAURA: Wow. Well, darling. I shut the door behind me. I have a favor to ask you.

SAM: I should warn you, we're not alone. And I look over to the five musicians and I ask them to strike up a little–

MATT: A gentle classical piece with a small, low-timbre brass section comes in.

SAM: Little bossa nova.

MATT: Yeah, it's nice. It's not too involved, doesn't distract you too much.

LAURA: It's nice mood setting, I like it.

SAM: Whatever. It's, you know, it's my special place where I like to come and think about philosophy and life.

LAURA: You're so smart. I've always thought that about you, that you're very smart.

SAM: Well, many people do.

LAURA: Yes. I sit down next to him on the bed.

SAM: (gulps) It goes up and down a bit. It's a water bed.

LAURA: Cozy. Help me!

SAM: Is that–

LAURA: What?

SAM: Did we see that before?

LAURA: Maybe. Okay, Scanlan, I'm a terrible person, I know.

SAM: What did you do?

LAURA: I took a broom from a poor, poor dragonborn.

SAM: You took Gern's magical broom?

LAURA: Maybe.

SAM: Oh my gods.

LAURA: I know, I'm sorry, I know, I'm terrible, and now it won't work and it was pointless and I want it to work. Help me.

SAM: Because it flies?

LAURA: Because it flies, Scanlan.

SAM: What is it with you and flying?

LAURA: I don't know, there's just something about being up there in the air that makes me feel alive in a way that I've never felt before.

SAM: I could make you fly.

LAURA: Okay. Wait– Oh, you mean. With your cube.

SAM: Yes, that's right.

LAURA: I'd rather you do it with this broom, actually. And not in any weird way, just to be able to help me make the broom fly. Do you know how to do that?

SAM: I will try. I will examine the broom and make some sort of check on it.

MATT: Make an arcana check.

SAM: Oh, that's not good.

TRAVIS: Should've come to me for that.

LAURA: Oh, no!

TALIESIN: It's a number.

SAM: 14.

MATT: 14. Okay. Looking over the broom, you can tell it's enchanted. There are runes along the sides of the broom. You do gather from the nature of the enchantment that it is an item that requires a spoken phrase from the wielder to initiate its magic. Short of an Identify spell, you would probably have to guess. If you know the Identify spell, that would be a way for you to.

SAM: I don't. Can I examine it to see if there's any markings, any hidden anything on it?

MATT: Make an intelligence check. Or, you know what, this would be specifically investigation. Investigation check.

SAM: Investigation. 21.

MATT: You do notice that many of the runes intricately carved on the side of the broom are– they're part of the enchantment; however, there is a certain phrase that is not part of the enchantment. It's scrawled into and very cleverly hidden amongst the broom. It is not Common. What languages do you know?

SAM: Common, Gnome. Pig Latin.

MATT: It is not a language you recognize.

LAURA: I speak Elvish, Draconic, Undercommon?

SAM: You don't see the words, though.

LAURA: But you saw it.

SAM: There's some words here that might be a clue to the code word. Basically, we need to find the code word. What do we know about Gern?

LAURA: Well, I tried Fatty Arbuckle. I thought maybe that was something.

SAM: Did you try the others? Coral? Carol?

LAURA: Coral. Carol.

SAM: You probably need to hold it.

LAURA: What was the… Oh. Coral! Carol! I don't remember the other one's name.

SAM: I don't either.

LAURA: Stimpy? Was it Stimpy? It was Stimpy!

SAM: Try: On Coral! On Carol! On Stimpy! On Fatty Arbuckle!

LAURA: Wait, but what does the word say? Where's the word?

SAM: I can't read the words.

LAURA: Can I find it? What is it?

MATT: Do you point it out to her?

SAM: I point it out to her.

LAURA: What is it?

MATT: It is Draconic.

LAURA: What does it say?

MATT: It's archaic Draconic. It's from the base root of the language, which is one of the oldest languages in civilization. It spells out, phonetically, the word for candle.

LAURA: That's smart. (hacking spit)

MATT: At which point, the broom jumps up in your hands, and almost lifts you off the bed for a second, and you catch it and hold it back down.

LAURA: (singing) Something has changed within me! Oh my God! Oh my God. Scanlan.

SAM: Weirdly, you are not the first floating chick I've had in my bed. But that is amazing! You're flying!

LAURA: I hug him. I hug him as hard as I've ever hugged Scanlan. I love you so much. You're my favorite person in the entire universe right now. I owe you–

SAM: Nope. You owe me nothing. That's what friends are for.

LAURA: I love you.

SAM: I shake her little elf hand.

MATT: It's a pretty big elf hand compared to your tiny gnome hand.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: I sit on it. How high are the ceilings in here?

MATT: How high are the ceilings in your room?

SAM: As high as they can be on the top floor.

MATT: For this room, because it is an extradimensional space, this room is probably a good 50 feet high. High ceilings, with drapery. It's so garish.

LAURA: Can I sit side-saddle on it?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: (hacking spit) I don't remember how I said it before.

SAM: You're going to have to remember that now.

MATT: Better write that down. (hacking spit)

LAURA: Why didn't I choose something more fun to say?

MATT: Welcome to D&D. As the words emit from your mouth, the broom takes off, and you have to aim it a bit. You start going around in circles, slowly rising up towards the roof of the room.

LAURA: Yay, this is awesome! I'm really high!

SAM: I instruct the band to start playing Flight of the Bumblebee.

MATT: (whistling)

LAURA: Oh my gosh! Can I take my hands off?

MATT: You do, and you start going, “Whoa!” Go ahead and make a dexterity check.

LAURA: Oh my God. I probably should have been lower to the ground when I said that. Okay, that's fine. Oh, I'm still exhausted!

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Oh, shit.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: That's fine. You're fine. A really bad roll might have had a circumstance, but you manage to catch yourself on the broom in time and, okay. You're getting the hang of it. It's still not something you're used to, but it's fine.

LAURA: Can I point it down towards the ground and get lower?

MATT: You do. And you take a few minutes to figure out the pitch and wobble of it, and it's less of a directional flight, more than it is a combination of how you hold the front of the broom and concentrate on its direction. But nevertheless, a few moments pass, and you get the hang of it.

LAURA: Oh. My. God. This is the best day of my entire life.

SAM: You look great up there.

LAURA: Thank you. Thank you.

SAM: But you should not have stolen that!

LAURA: Oh, I know, I know, it's terrible!

SAM: He was our friend! He helped us!

LAURA: How bad of a person am I? I'm a horrible person!

SAM: We should do something to repay the debt!

LAURA: Well, I tried. I was going to give him a lot of dragon scales, and he wandered away!

SAM: We can't possibly find him now.

LAURA: Well, how do I help him? Because I feel terrible.

SAM: If we can't help him, you're going to have to help someone else to make up for the lost karma.

LAURA: I will help as many people as I can while I'm flying through the air.

SAM: Perhaps I will pick someone for you to help someday. To repay us both.

LAURA: I think that's a deal, Scanlan.

SAM: All right. I will mark that down.

LAURA: What are you, like, a hag now? I sit on it, and I open the door, and I fly through the doorway.

MATT: She drifts out of the room. The door (slam) shuts behind her.

MARISHA: You're going to be one of those Segway assholes now!

TRAVIS: Yes, totally!

MATT: You lean back in your bed, on your fine, black silken sheets, with Flight of the Bumblebees still blaring by the fireplace.

SAM: All right, guys, it didn't work, you can go.

MATT: They all get up. The music stops. And they all slowly drift out of the room, one by one. Fireplace still crackling.

SAM: It's nice in here.

TALIESIN: I'm sitting wherever there's a lounge of any kind. I'm working in the sketchbook. Working on things.

MATT: Not a worry.

MARISHA: I'll be reading my alchemy book, because I have had so little time to catch up on my reading.

TALIESIN: We never talk anymore, do we?

MARISHA: We never do.

TALIESIN: Mmm.

LAURA: I'm so happy! It's the best!

MATT: So good!

LAURA: I'm going to try to sleep. It's going to be really, really hard because I'm so excited, but I really need to get some rest!

MARISHA: Did you feed the dog?

TALIESIN: Today? I don't know.

MATT: So, anyone want to do anything else? You going to go rest for the evening?

TRAVIS: I rest.

TALIESIN: I'm good.

MATT: All right. You all eventually find your ways to your rooms, happy and comfortable in the fact that no one has to take watch for this night. As you all get to bed, a few hours into the evening, Keyleth, you are just starting to doze off when you hear a knock at the door.

MARISHA: (gasps awake) Scanlan?

MATT: You open the door?

MARISHA: On my door?

MATT: On your door.

MARISHA: Who is it?

MATT: “Keyleth, it is Cerkonos. Please open up. I wish to speak with you.”

MARISHA: I open the door.

MATT: Okay. Cerkonos comes in. The first thing you notice– previously, you had seen what was his burned-off arm at the shoulder. You can now see the flesh is extended and is currently very slowly in the process of regenerating his lost arm. And it catches you off-guard for a moment, and he puts his hand up and says, “Sorry, it is not very presentable.” And he still keeps his hand over it, slightly embarrassed by the mid-regenerative state of it. “I'm sorry to have disturbed you, I come as unease has taken my mind.” And he enters the room and closes the door behind him. “May we sit?”

MARISHA: Of course, please, Cerkonos.

MATT: He goes over and takes one of the nearby chairs and sets it down, places one across from him for you to sit, gestures with his one arm. Sits down. “I would not speak with those I do not trust. And I have seen your purity of soul, Keyleth. So I come to you with these concerns.” His eyes trail off for a moment in the distance, and he gathers his thoughts and his words. “Four years ago, a young woman came to Pyrah for redemption. A lost girl, cast out and wishing for acceptance. We, as we do with outcasts, took her in, taught her. And in time, called her one of our own, one of the Pyrah. In recent months, she began to grow distant, taking to staying in the Cindergrove unattended for days at a time. One afternoon, the mountain moved, angry with shifting fires. We felt a disturbance in the Gate, and when we went to investigate, there she was, commanding powers we did not know she had.”

MARISHA: What kind of powers? Beyond those of druidic nature?

MATT: “These were the magics taken by man who defied the gods. These were the purest of ancient arcane threads. We watched as she reached out and tore open the Gate. She laughed as we called out to stop. But something terrible emerged from that wounded sky.”

MARISHA: Thordak?

MATT: “This dragon you speak of, yes. I defended all that I could, but the power was too great, and unconsciousness took me. I awoke to my people in tatters, the fires untethered, and this terrible girl gone. It is both embarrassing and greatly alarming that we could be infiltrated by such an entity. That blame falls on me, as the headmaster, for not seeing this earlier.”

MARISHA: You acted within the good nature of our people, there's nothing wrong with that. How old was this girl when she came to you? And how old is she now?

MATT: “When she came to us she couldn't be more than 15.”

MARISHA: So she's 19, 20?

MATT: “Perhaps. She did not seem to blossom into womanhood as many do. We considered her more of a runt of her litter, if you will.”

MARISHA: And what was her race?

MATT: “She seemed human.”

MARISHA: She seemed human? What do you mean?

MATT: “We take many forms as druids. If she was indeed human, at that age, to command such power… I do not know her true nature.”

MARISHA: What was her name?

MATT: “Her name was Raishan. Anyway. I wish to tell you this because my heart is heavy with guilt, and I want you to know that even in places of comfort, family, be careful, keep those you know you can trust close. Be mindful of those that promise aid when they have not proven themselves. If you have an instinct, follow it.”

MARISHA: Are you referring to something in particular, Cerkonos?

MATT: “I just do not wish you to make the same mistake I did. Anyway, I thank you for your companions and you coming to our aid. It shall not be forgotten.”

MARISHA: I shall keep an ear open for the name Raishan. If I hear anything about her, I'll send word.

MATT: “Should you need the aid of the Pyrah, though we are not much at now, come find me. I look forward for to you bringing Zephrah together. You will make a fine leader.”

MARISHA: Thank you, Cerkonos. And I'm glad that you're still with us.

MATT: “Kaitiakè, Keyleth.”

MARISHA: Kaitiakè, Cerkonos.

MATT: Cerkonos leaves.

MARISHA: And I start poring through my notes for the name Raishan, because Keyleth believes she has heard that name before as one of the dragons, correct? One of the white–

LAURA: (whispering) It's the green one.

MARISHA: –the green one. Okay, okay.

MATT: That is true.

MARISHA: Do I have any other reference, would I know anything else about that?

MATT: That's all you know, is the name Raishan was used when the Conclave attacked Emon. And it seemed the name belonged to the green dragon that initiated the assault where you guys were.

MARISHA: Fucking bitch.

MATT: So, these thoughts echoing through your mind–

TALIESIN: Streets will run green with revenge!

MARISHA: Yes, they will!

MATT: You sleep, but uneasily, as all of these realizations swirl in your head. Eventually sleep takes you, but it is not an easy sleep. Just enough to function. Barely. Vax. As you yourself have attempted to stave off sleep for many days, pushing yourself to your limits, it finally takes its toll, and you drift off into a deep, deep slumber. In that slumber, you find yourself in darkness. Echoes of a distant voice, muffled, as if underwater. Crash. The darkness is shattered into a thousand black feathers, and you find yourself falling, falling. Falling towards what seems to be a tangled net of glowing threads. You're afraid you might impact at such a speed, but before you do, you slow and come to a stop before this extremely prominent glowing weave, this infinite tapestry in all directions. You are uncertain of the meaning of this moment when a large cold hand reaches past your shoulder and grasps a thread right before your face, this singular glowing thread, pulsing with light like a heartbeat. You follow the arm over your shoulder, and glance up directly into the massive form of the Raven Queen: porcelain face like a mask, long jet-black hair, her body encasing you like a physical cage. Your eyes follow the arm back to the thread that she carries between her massive fingers. She tugs it, ever so gently, and it causes waves to ripple through the tapestry into infinity. Her voice fills your mind, both calm but cold. “This is you, my champion. You are fate-touched. The choice is yours. Rebirth or ruin. Maker or martyr. Conqueror, tyrant, or nothing.” She plucks the thread from the weave, snapping it. You plummet into the hole left behind it, falling faster and faster into the dark. Losing control, you turn around and see the Raven Queen, disappearing into the distance, growing smaller and smaller, until suddenly, nothing. Grog. You fall into a deep snore, heavy, heavy snore, after drinking the wine, climbing up walls, you've had an exhausting day of–

TRAVIS: Sleeping in the sand pit.

MATT: Okay, you are face down.

TRAVIS: Like a beach, just (snore).

MATT: It's great. You've drooled into the sand, and it's clustered around your beard. It's horrifying. But in the middle of snoring, this restful sleep also comes into your mind, and you find yourself walking alone. A long hallway, into blinding light. You have to cover your face, it's so bright, but you push forward because you know there's only one way to go. You cannot see, but you can hear around you and sense the hallway's ended, and there's now space around you. You cannot see, but you sense an arena, gladiatorial in nature. You can hear the distant whisper and hum of crowds cheering.

SAM: Phillip! Phillip!

MATT: You sense others around you, closing in suddenly. A voice, ever-whispering in your ear, says, “Release me.” Still blinded, eyes closed, on instinct, you pull the cold, dark blade from your back and swing wide, over and over again, feeling the shuddering shock of each impact, your strength matched by the razor-like edge of your weapon, cleaving down any who would approach. The high of adrenaline is incredible, and you laugh aloud at the sheer thrill of your own power.

TRAVIS: (laughs triumphantly)

MATT: The light subsides and your vision returns. You look to see hundreds of people dead at your feet. Farmers, children. You see Pike, motionless, cast among the carnage. You want to scream, but instead you laugh, against your own judgment and intent, like you're locked within yourself and have no control. And as you look up from the pile of corpses at your feet, you see a towering figure before you, cast in furs and bone, standing even a head and a half's height above you, is Kevdak, looking down at you with pride. The entire herd steps up beside him, staring at you atop your throne of corpses, and the herd kneels. Kevdak bows, looking up at you, smiling. “You. You have finally made me proud, Grog.” You wake up (gasp), spittle and sand and grit mashed against your face. Who knows how long it's been, but it's been a while since you've had a dream, let alone one like that. Now, as you all eventually come to in the morning, having your evening's rest, you've recovered your hit points, your spells, all of the usual good stuff, in a fantastic mansion. Maybe not the most fantastic rest for some of you, but a fantastic mansion. You all eventually find your way to the breakfast nook, which is as extravagant as you would imagine a Scanlan-based breakfast nook would be.

TALIESIN: Green marble, silver tiling. Sorry, carry on.

MARISHA: Crystal chandelier.

SAM: Waffle presses.

MATT: There's a fantastic breakfast feast already prepared, rows of servants along the walls waiting eagerly to attend to you guys as you sit down, pouring fresh juices. It smells fantastic, and most of you look rested, except for a handful.

SAM: Eat! Drink!

LAURA: I come skipping into the room, for sure.

TALIESIN: Good morning.

SAM: You're looking delighted and delightful.

LAURA: What a beautiful day it is!

MARISHA: Do you have wine and ale at the breakfast buffet?

SAM: Sure, sure. There's mimosas, there's–

MARISHA: I'll have a mimosa.

TALIESIN: You've never heard of breakfast beer?

SAM: Breakfast beer? Sure. There's milk from a cow with a broken nose.

LAURA: Oh, that is so sad. Can you heal it? Can it be healed?

SAM: It'll be fine. When we leave this place, all these people die, anyway.

TALIESIN: You're supposed to churn the milk after it leaves the cow.

LAURA: Wait, Scanlan, can we store things here, or does it all disappear as soon as we leave?

SAM: I don't know.

MATT: You haven't tried it before.

LAURA: We should leave something inconsequential.

SAM: We'll leave Trinket, and then we'll try it again, and if Trinket's still here, we'll know.

MARISHA: Schrödinger's Trinket.

SAM: It's just– no?

LAURA: No.

SAM: All right. We'll leave the broom and see if it's still here.

LAURA: No, no, no, let's not.

TALIESIN: What broom?

SAM: Oh, Vex, is there something you'd like to admit to the rest of the group? They'll see you use it sooner or later.

MATT: You hear a voice go (grunt). Trinket's over there, face covered in breakfast food, trying to sit at one of the edges of the table like a person, the actual bowing of the wooden bench that Trinket's on, you hear the creaking as he moves around in it.

LAURA: Thank you, Scanlan, for making me feel… So, guess what! I can fly! A-plus!

TALIESIN: How did that happen?

MARISHA: I had a really weird night, too. What happened in your… because, I mean, flight?

LAURA: Did you have a weird night? Do you want to tell us about it?

MARISHA: No, I want to hear about your night.

TALIESIN: I think you go first.

MARISHA: I want to learn how you fly.

LAURA: Okay. So I sort of kind of tricked Gern, I'm a terrible person.

SAM: Gern, our friend.

TRAVIS: You swallowed that last part. What did you say?

LAURA: I sort of kind of, this is the worst… took something that wasn't mine? In a way. I mean, I was holding on to it, and then I slipped, and it fell into the Bag of Holding.

TRAVIS: Why is that bad?

TALIESIN: You stole from a candlemaker?

LAURA: I stole from a necromancer.

TALIESIN: Slash candlemaker.

LAURA: Yes. No, he was a nice guy.

SAM: I think we should hear Vax's opinion of this.

MARISHA: Vax, I think you were a bad influence.

LIAM: I can't judge. I've done my share in the past. I thought you were a little overly nice to him.

TALIESIN: I mean, to be fair, we did steal a carpet once.

LAURA: We did.

SAM: Did we steal that? I thought it was just a–

MARISHA: We used that in an emergency.

TRAVIS: We commandeered it.

LAURA: We took it, Scanlan, and we didn't tell Allura.

TALIESIN: And then never gave it back.

SAM: That's true.

LAURA: We're terrible.

LIAM: I don't think any of us can judge you, Vex'ahlia, but it does strike me as a little bit odd, if nothing else.

LAURA: I know. I know, I'm afraid these rogue tendencies I've been learning from you, brother, maybe rubbed off a little bit. No, I just, I know I shouldn't have.

TRAVIS: I don't care.

LAURA: I wanted to return it right away, and then he wandered off. That's a lie, I didn't want to return it. But I did want to pay him!

TRAVIS: I don't think you wanted to do that either.

LAURA: No, I did! I did, I wanted to pay him! But he wandered away, and then I didn't pay him, and now I have this broom that I stole, and there's really no way to return it. Well, I probably could find him, but I don't want to because now I can fly, you guys.

TRAVIS: Are you going to re-gift it?

LAURA: No. I'm going to keep it.

MARISHA: What do you say, Percy? I think it's kind of funny.

TALIESIN: Are you honestly asking my opinion? You said what?

LAURA: Actually, Percy, do you know– I know you can build things and make things wonderful.

TALIESIN: Can you show me? What is this thing, what did you steal? What is this thing?

LAURA: I pull out the broom and I lift up in the air.

MATT: You guys watch as Vex all of a sudden (whoosh) takes off above the breakfast room.

TRAVIS: Sweet!

MARISHA: All right, that is pretty cool, Vex. That's pretty badass.

TALIESIN: I don't know if I approve of the metaphor, but that's–

LIAM: What happens when you shoot a couple arrows from up there?

TRAVIS: Yeah, shoot me with an arrow!

MARISHA: Yeah, shoot some arrows!

TALIESIN: Okay, you're not holding onto the broom anymore.

LAURA: No, I've been practicing! I've been practicing!

MARISHA: I reach on the table and I grab what I'm sure is a whole chicken sitting there.

SAM: Sure.

MARISHA: And I hold it up and I go–

TALIESIN: Has it not occurred to you that you're not going to be able to fly?

LAURA: No, no, no, look! I'm not holding on, Percy! Look at me, not holding on!

MARISHA: Okay, Vex, ready? Ready, Vex? Vex?

TALIESIN: Oh, dear.

MARISHA: Trust.

SAM: Watch your eyes. Watch your eyes.

MARISHA: Trust Vex!

MATT: All right, Laura, I want you to go ahead and, first, roll a dexterity check.

LAURA: Okay. Shut up! 13.

MATT: 13, okay. You almost slip off the broom in the process of drawing the arrow from the quiver. You catch yourself and just barely manage to pull back and fire. I want you to go ahead and roll an attack with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, man, disadvantage. Okay.

MARISHA: Please, god, may your aim be true today, Vex.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16. (impact) The arrow does get relatively close to your hand, but it does stick into the turkey.

MARISHA: She did it! I hand the chicken to Scanlan.

SAM: I start eating.

TALIESIN: I pull the arrow out of the chicken.

LIAM: Do it again! And I throw the chicken closest to me into the air.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

SAM: A moving target!

LAURA: Oh, god, okay.

MATT: Okay, make another dexterity check.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: There's lots of chickens, by the way.

LAURA: Shit balls. 13.

MATT: 13. Okay, this time, you start falling off and you catch yourself entirely. The arrow just goes wide, you don't even get a chance to nock it in the bow.

LAURA: Mother bitch, I really need to work on this! Okay.

MARISHA: It'll take some practice.

TALIESIN: I don't think this is– this may be an engineering issue.

LAURA: Yes, Percy, this is the thing. Can you build a seat on this?

TALIESIN: I pull out my notepad and start sketching.

LAURA: What if you could build a seat, and then I can sit on it instead of trying to sit on this tiny little stick?

TALIESIN: Let me–

SAM: Tinker?

TALIESIN: Tinker.

MARISHA: You know, beyond it being an engineering issue, it might be a greed issue first.

LAURA: Really?

MARISHA: Look–

LAURA: How's that mimosa treating you?

MARISHA: It's phenomenal. It's been a long few weeks. I don't care. I don't care. We're never going to see Gern again. I have so many other things to care about.

SAM: Oh, no, she's day drunk again.

LAURA: Oh, no, are you already drunk, Keyleth?

MARISHA: No! I'm just, it's been a long few– Look.

TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus!

MARISHA: I don't care anymore.

TRAVIS: How many was that? Just one, right? We've been here for five minutes.

LAURA: I float down.

MARISHA: No! I just don't want you to die.

LAURA: I float down eye-level, but I'm still floating.

MARISHA: I don't want you to die. I don't want you to die because of your greed. I don't care that you have– You look amazing. Doesn't she look amazing?

TALIESIN: Like a real hoverboard, is there a chance this one might set on fire as well?

LAURA: Why are you trying to be an asshole?

TALIESIN: Sorry.

LAURA: Here's the thing, Keyleth. I'm not afraid to die anymore. I came to this realization. I've seen the other side. I've come to terms with it.

MARISHA: Well, that's phenomenal that you've come to terms with it! I don't know about the rest of us in the room that all watched you die, though.

TALIESIN: I feel too guilty to say no to her. I'm perfectly content to let this go.

TRAVIS: It is pretty sweet, flying around like that.

LAURA: It's pretty wonderful.

MARISHA: It's really cool.

TALIESIN: She's an adult. Deep levels of arrested development, but an adult nonetheless.

MARISHA: I don't care about the broom.

SAM: Keyleth, Vex swore to me that she would only use it for good.

LAURA: That's right. I'm not going to steal anything while I'm riding on it.

TALIESIN: Where would you put it, anyway? You can't let go.

MARISHA: Just don't get into trouble, I guess.

LAURA: I'll practice as much as I can, and Percy's going to help me.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: So I can be stable on this thing.

TALIESIN: I may need some money, but we'll put something together.

LAURA: I will give you all the money you want.

LIAM: Are you going to carry that on your back?

LAURA: Maybe.

LIAM: You'll look like a Byroden chimney sweep.

LAURA: But I feel so good.

MARISHA: You got out, you came out on top this time. It might not happen next time.

LAURA: I start eating while sitting on the broom.

MARISHA: All right. I think she's listening to me.

SAM: I think you broke through.

MARISHA: I think I did.

TALIESIN: I think you're learning to let people be people.

MARISHA: I don't care anymore.

SAM: Oh, look, look! Another round of chickens has just arrived for us to eat.

MARISHA: Oh, chicken!

SAM: I don't know what breakfast is, so I just keep commanding them to make chickens.

MATT: So much chicken, guys.

LAURA: Where should we head to?

SAM: What is our next– Shoot, I kept a to-do list for us, but I didn't bring it tonight.

TRAVIS: (burps)

SAM: Oh. I thought you were going to say something. That was a belch?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Did you want to head back to– Actually, Keyleth, you said something weird happened last night for you as well.

MARISHA: Yeah. Cerkonos stopped by.

LAURA: Yeah? I look at my brother. All right, cool. Keep going.

MARISHA: Not… As my elder. He stopped by as my respected elder. Do you all remember the name Raishan?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: That's one of the dragons.

MARISHA: Apparently she's our little infiltrator.

LAURA: What do you mean?

MARISHA: She came to the Fire Ashari, she came to Pyrah, about four years ago, and the Ashari, being the adoptive people that we are, they took her in.

LAURA: They adopted a dragon?

MARISHA: They adopted a dragon.

LAURA: How?

TALIESIN: Do they think she's the one who sabotaged the rift?

MARISHA: They do. They were unaware that she was a dragon.

SAM: Does that make her the leader or something? Is that how all the dragons got through? I'm still not quite sure.

TALIESIN: It makes her the instigator, at the very least.

MARISHA: It makes her fairly close to Thordak, it would seem. Apparently, when she came to the Fire Ashari, she was about 15 years old, and…

SAM: As a dragon?

TALIESIN: Visually.

MARISHA: As a human woman.

LAURA: So she was making it seem like she was 15.

MARISHA: She was making it seem like she was 15, and they started realizing that she possessed powers far beyond anything that they had seen before, and then these powers began to exceed anything beyond our druidic capabilities. And it would seem that they realized that too late.

SAM: Did they say anything about her goals, or motivations? Her ambitions?

MARISHA: Cerkonos said one day they woke up and the mountain was spewing fire, and was angry with lava, and when he went to investigate it, she was there, ripping open the rift. And that was when everything happened. When he came to consciousness, everything was destroyed, so that's all he saw. And she was gone. But we know where she went next.

TRAVIS: Where?

SAM: To Emon.

LAURA: Oh, eventually.

SAM: Kill everybody.

LAURA: Right. Totally. That day. The day.

MARISHA: I was trying to skip exposition, I thought you guys could fill in the blanks.

TALIESIN: We thought you had new information beyond that and would maybe want to add. It was certainly set up that way.

MARISHA: Thank you. I'll work on that next time.

TALIESIN: It was very leading.

LAURA: Okay, well that's good to know.

SAM: So perhaps we should inquire if you think this– Raishan?

MARISHA: Raishan.

SAM: Has tried to pretend to be a human woman in any other place? Should we ask around, or was it

just the one ruse here to gain entry for her companions?

MARISHA: I'm not sure.

SAM: All right. Well, don't trust anyone.

MARISHA: Don't trust anyone.

LAURA: Got it.

MATT: Servant rushes forward, “More chicken, sir?”

SAM: Keep it coming.

MATT: “Right away.”

LAURA: Do you guys have vegetables, maybe? Any vegetables?

MATT: “Vegetables, sir?”

SAM: I forgot to tell them to make them. Sorry. It's all chicken.

MATT: “Chicken it is.”

LAURA: Cool. Chicken and mimosas, it's my favorite breakfast.

MARISHA: And waffles.

SAM: Oh, waffles too? Chicken and waffles, that's right. Maybe someone else should be in charge of the food next time we come here. My tastes are a little–

TALIESIN: Base?

LAURA: Little?

SAM: Singular.

MARISHA: And one thing that this does confirm is that this has been a plan that's been in the process for a very, very long time.

SAM: No, I just came up with the chicken this morning when I woke up.

LAURA: Where are we going next, you guys?

SAM: Grog had some brass knuckles to get. Was that a thing? Did we get those?

TRAVIS: No. We haven't gotten those yet. But there's other things to explore.

SAM: All right. Wait, did we have to go make a trip to anyone else's homeland? How's Whitestone?

LAURA: We need to talk to a sphinx. A sphinx's boyfriend.

SAM: Oh, that's right. Maybe that should be our next–

MARISHA: What was his name? Hang on.

SAM: And what were we trying to get there? Another one of the articles of confederation?

MARISHA: We need the Titanstone Knuckles of Kord, which Kevdak has.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: That's with your tribe.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Okay, but then there's the sphinx.

LIAM: Time for a family reunion, Grog.

SAM: What's that, Vax?

LIAM: I said it's time for a family reunion, Grog. Are you ready for that, or do you want to put that off a bit?

TRAVIS: Oh, no, I mean. Whenever. It's. You know.

LAURA: So do you want to go now, or do you want to maybe swing by somewhere?

TALIESIN: It's either that or the library, I imagine.

TRAVIS: You want to go to the library?

TALIESIN: I was just saying that it's either that or the library.

SAM: So it's Grog's herd or the sphinx to get something.

LAURA: We'll remember.

SAM: On the way. And then, or, TBD, find something else to do. I guess Grog's thing is the most promising. We know that there's Knuckles there, we know that there's people we'll know there.

LAURA: Well, it's all actually around Westruun, right? Aren't your people around Westruun?

TRAVIS: You know, they roam.

LAURA: So we have to find them.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Last time we ran into them, wasn't it on the way to Kraghammer?

TALIESIN: From Westruun.

MARISHA: Odessa's mate is south of the Frostweald.

LAURA: I think it was.

TRAVIS: Was it?

LIAM: Yeah, it was. On the way to Kraghammer, that's right.

SAM: Is Frostweald near Kraghammer as well?

LAURA: The Frostweald is–

MATT: South of Westruun.

LAURA: South of Westruun, yes.

TALIESIN: So let's make our way to Westruun, I suppose, then.

SAM: And that's in the direction of both Grog's herd and the Frostweald?

LAURA: Potentially? Well, Grog would know.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Cool. Yes, I think Grog really wants to go.

SAM: Yeah, we should probably go there.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Let's do that.

MATT: Your herd wanders all across the Silvercut Roadway, that whole area to the west of Westruun, south of Kraghammer, east of Emon, that vicinity.

TRAVIS: They wander there.

LAURA: Around there.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: But look, I was thinking. It might be a thing when we find them, right? So picture this. Me, and then a lot of other me's, and they're all really big and angry. So if we want to do anything else before that happens–

SAM: You think they'll attack us? But we're with you! You're our ally!

TRAVIS: Yeah, and I'm a super cool, awesome, fun guy, but we didn't really leave in the best terms.

LAURA: Oh, weren't you–

TRAVIS: Ass-kicked, yeah. All left for dead, pretty much.

MARISHA: You know what, Grog, it's been a while. Why exactly were you beat up and kicked out of your herd?

TRAVIS: Right, so I was a bit younger, and we were wandering through the woods, and we came upon this little old bearded thing, right? And he was carrying groceries, like food and stuff, and everybody was a little hammered from boozing, and they were like, hey, let's kill the little thing, and we'll string him up and see what his insides look like! And normally I'm like, yay, I'll wear him as a hat! But he looked really sweet, and I felt bad, so I said we shouldn't do that. And… They didn't like that answer. My uncle in particular, he didn't like that, so he made me fight my cousin, his son.

LAURA: And?

TRAVIS: That wasn't bad, I handled that. It was not a problem.

MARISHA: Okay. So they might have a grudge about that.

TRAVIS: No, there's no grudge. They pretty much think I'm dead, because after I whooped his son's ass, he whooped my ass.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We have a thing for that.

SAM: We do?

TALIESIN: Can I borrow your hat?

SAM: Of course you can borrow my hat.

LAURA: The Hat of Disguise?

TALIESIN: If you don't want to have an immediate confrontation with your family, there's no particular reason why they have to know you're alive yet at all.

SAM: You could wear this hat. Might not fit on your head, you could maybe put it on one of your knuckles.

TRAVIS: I'm not hiding from my herd.

TALIESIN: You were giving off the impression of one who is looking forward to putting something off.

TRAVIS: I was, was I?

TALIESIN: You were. You're not anymore, as if you've been dared, somehow.

LAURA: Very big.

SAM: If you're too scared to do it, we can go elsewhere. Sorry, I will never say that again.

TRAVIS: No, I'm excited to go. I want to go. We should go. You know, what we need is the wolf.

LAURA: The wolf?

TRAVIS: Yeah. We need–

LAURA: Oh, the wolf in Whitestone?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Don't they smell shit? He could help us find them.

LAURA: Well, Trinket can smell.

MARISHA: And I can also theoretically turn into a wolf to help us find things.

TRAVIS: I mean, if you want to. I don't know how long it's been since he's seen a she-wolf, so, you know.

LIAM: Grog.

MARISHA: I was talking as in–

TRAVIS: I mean, it's very generous.

LIAM: Just out of curiosity, we weren't going to walk in and negotiate with your uncle. He's not going to give us these Knuckles. He's a proud owner of them, yes?

TRAVIS: Yep.

LIAM: And how many are in the herd, roughly?

TRAVIS: What's a number bigger than five?

LAURA: Six?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like six.

MARISHA: You mean it's like at least six? Or possibly more than six? How fast actually is the reproduction process of goliaths?

TALIESIN: Are there more people in your herd or fingers on your hand?

LIAM: I hold up Scanlan's hands and then I hold up my hands behind them so that all 20 fingers are waggling. Grog, are there more than this many in your herd?

TRAVIS: Yeah, six.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: He's counting hands, not fingers.

LAURA: Oh. I hold up mine, too.

SAM: We all hold up our hands.

LAURA: How many hands is that?

LIAM: We're doing rakshasa hands. Grog, is there more of them than rakshasa hands?

TRAVIS: That's closer, yeah. It's been a long time.

MARISHA: Yeah, this could be bad. This could be bad.

TALIESIN: We could attempt to steal them.

LAURA: Steal from the goliaths? That could work.

MARISHA: How easy is that?

LAURA: Does he wear them all the time? Does he put them in a chest?

TRAVIS: I mean, they're pretty smart, they're like me.

LAURA: Yeah. You're right.

LIAM: I don't think it's going to be pretty no matter what we do, but I actually think trying to steal them might be a better angle than going toe-to-toe with “six” goliaths. I just did air quotes.

LAURA: If six is the right number.

TRAVIS: Here's the thing, though. Normally, if you try and steal something, or if you try and break the rules and you're like Keyleth and you get arrested every time, arrested ain't so bad. They don't really arrest you. They, like, open you up and use you as an appetizer.

LAURA: As a hat.

TRAVIS: Yeah. That was my thing, though. So I'm a little nervous about that.

LIAM: We just have to pick the least terrible option right now.

MARISHA: Well, we need these vestiges. We cannot do anything without these vestiges.

SAM: It seems to me that no matter where we go, we are putting ourselves in peril.

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: So it's really just a question of which peril do we want to face first.

MARISHA: And don't we theoretically need the vestiges before we go visit Odessa's boyfriend?

SAM: I thought Odessa's boyfriend had a vestige.

LAURA: No, he has locations of other vestiges.

TRAVIS: Odessa? Osysa.

MATT: Osysa.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: Shit, that's what I would call her. Odessa.

LAURA: I feel like Pike would want to come with us, Grog. You're very dear to her.

MARISHA: But wasn't Pike and her grandfather the reason?

TRAVIS: It was Pike's grandfather, yeah. And plus, she's a healer.

TALIESIN: At the very least, let's make our way to Westruun, then. Let's get that far and see what's–

MARISHA: Well, remember Westruun is under dragons right now.

SAM: We can instantly transport anywhere.

LAURA: You know of trees outside of Westruun?

MARISHA: I can, but it's under dragon reign. In fact, isn't that where Raishan stopped off?

MATT: No, the scrying that you saw was Umbrasyl, the black dragon, that took up residence, it seems, in Gatshadow, the mountain north of Westruun, at the base of the Cloudkeep mountain range.

LAURA: And Gatshadow is where Grog got his scar, right?

MATT: Yep, that's where you guys initially… that happened.

TRAVIS: All right. Fuck. Look, if there's a lot of them, and only a handful of us, it's not usually customary to have two sides go at each other. If we want those Knuckles, I'm pretty sure it might have to be one on one. Now, I know I can totally take my uncle. But I wouldn't mind if we found a few extra-credit items before we did that just in case I have the flu that morning, or it burns when I pee. Just something to take the edge off.

SAM: So sphinx first.

TRAVIS: If that's what you want to do, then yeah!

SAM: Say no more.

MARISHA: Okay. And did we also want to check out the Cobalt Reserve which was in Westruun, or did Allura already handle that and we're cool?

LAURA: Allura, I think, handled that, right? You saw her.

MARISHA: She was there and it looked pretty trashed. It looked like she grabbed a lot of the last of the good things.

SAM: All right. Let's go to the sphinx, then. Where's that? The Frostweald, we've been there.

LAURA: Yes, we have been to the Frostweald.

SAM: Do you remember any trees there?

LAURA: Frostweald is where Grog mugged down with the nymph, right?

LIAM: Allegedly.

LAURA: Allegedly.

SAM: We'll never know.

TRAVIS: Grog does not kiss and tell.

LAURA: Yes, you do.

TRAVIS: All the time.

LIAM: All the time. All the time.

MARISHA: Just not that one time that we want to actually know.

SAM: Let's go to the Frostweald.

LAURA: Let's do it!

SAM: Do you remember any trees?

MARISHA: Do I remember any trees?

MATT: At the time, because you were not specifically paying attention to this ability of yours, there is no specific tree that has caught your attention. You could attempt to make an intelligence roll.

MARISHA: Not my strong suit. A straight intelligence check? Nine.

MATT: Nine. Unfortunately, you can't recall the specific location of any trees in the Frostweald. It's been a long time since then, and you weren't being conscious of it at the time.

MARISHA: It's been a few years, you guys.

TALIESIN: All trees look the same, don't they?

MARISHA: After a while.

TALIESIN: Say it. All trees look the same.

LIAM: All right. Everybody hop on Vex's broom.

LAURA: I mean, we could try.

MARISHA: I could get us close, or I could scry and look for a tree.

MATT: If you would like to, yeah.

MARISHA: Can I take time to do that?

MATT: If you want to, yeah. The trees in the area that you would know, that you recall, there was a… There were trees based around the Crossroads, which is the middle point of the Silvercut roadway that's even further northwest, and west of Westruun. There's the Bramblewood Forest, which is just north of Westruun. Most of them would be further west from there. Those are the closest.

MARISHA: The closest destination. Would the Crossroads be good? Maybe get us to the Crossroads?

SAM: Or we could just go to Westruun. Is Westruun still there?

LAURA: Westruun's under dragon rule. There's an actual dragon on Westruun.

MATT: Not on. Up in the mountain, but watching down, probably.

MARISHA: But they've got wyverns policing, right, in Westruun?

MATT: You didn't notice in your scry.

MARISHA: I'm going to assume. Let's do the Crossroads.

LAURA: Let's do it! Let's do it! Let's do it!

MARISHA: We could theoretically run into your herd, though.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I mean, I hope we do.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: To the Crossroads!

MATT: Okay. So you're going to the Crossroads. The Crossroads is about two days of travel northeast of the Frostweald, about three days' travel.

MARISHA: So I would be going northeast from the Crossroads? Or if I wanted to go in the Bramblewood I would have to southwest to get to the Frostweald?

MATT: Here we go. This is the Frostweald. This is Westruun. This is the Crossroads. This is Emon. This is Kraghammer.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MARISHA: Where's the Bramble forest?

MATT: It's right here. It's by Westruun. The Crossroads is over here. You can totally take the Crossroads, but it'll be–

LAURA: Go to the forest.

MARISHA: Let's go to the forest. Let's go to the Bramblewood forest.

MATT: Bramblewood forest? Okay, that's fine.

MARISHA: There's got to be some big trees there. I remember a few big trees. I remember admiring a few big trees in the Bramblewood forest.

MATT: Because you spent a lot of time in Westruun, specifically, you do recall various locations. You take a moment to concentrate on a few trees actually within Westruun. You recall there was one that was near a playground where you had once interrogated a small child if they had seen–

TALIESIN: Yeah! I remember that!

SAM: We spent a whole day in that park.

MATT: Yep. You begin to cast the spell and you concentrate on that tree in the park. There's no connection to the tree. You gather that the tree may not have survived the initial attack on Westruun. However, you do take a moment and you do recall at the entrance to the Bramblewood, when you guys were briefly attacked by that group of thieves that were pulling you off to the side, pretending to be a stranded caravan.

MARISHA: That was good.

MATT: There was a series of rather large trees that marked the roadway there, and you recall one that had distinct markings, and you do manage to find a point of concentration or connection there.

MARISHA: I guess it took me a moment to find signal. Okay. All right. We're good.

SAM: You need a signal boost.

MARISHA: I think I got one.

MATT: You complete the spell against one of the petrified trees on the outside of the Cindergrove. The doorway opens up, and you guys can see a thicket of Bramblewood trees on the opposite side. You all rush through one after the other, Trinket jumping behind. You all make it through, and you're now standing on the central pathway of the Bramblewood. Further south, you're probably about an hour and a half foot travel before you exit the southern portion of the forest.

MARISHA: All right, sorry, guys, this is as close as I could get us.

LAURA: No, this is great!

SAM: And how far are we now? A day's travel? Two days' travel, you said?

MATT: To the Frostweald? You're about a day and a half. On horseback you're about a day, under a day. On foot, you're looking at about two days' travel, a little over two days' travel.

SAM and LAURA: Ugh.

MATT: That's a rapid pace.

MARISHA: Mist form.

TRAVIS: Or we go where?

MARISHA: We could be clouds.

SAM: We're not very fast in mist form, are we?

LAURA: No, we are, we're super fast.

SAM: Are we?

MATT: You're fast in mist form.

MARISHA: How long would it take to get us in mist form?

MATT: It would be a little bit faster than a horse.

SAM: Like a day.

MARISHA: Should we turn into clouds and go?

SAM: I haven't done this before. Is it freaky?

LAURA: I pop Trinket back into his little crystal.

SAM: Is it super freaky?

TALIESIN: It's so super freaky.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: Percy, what if instead of a seat, what if it was like I was straddling it, and there were two little things like footholds?

TALIESIN: I'm sorry, do you want to design this?

LAURA: No, no, it's up to you. It's totally you.

TALIESIN: Are you sure?

LAURA: I was just coming up with ideas to help you out.

TALIESIN: You're welcome to design this, it's just going to be much more expensive.

LAURA: No, no, it's all you. It's all you.

MATT: So, Keyleth, what are you doing? Are you doing the–

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm picking my spells because I haven't done that yet, but yeah. We'll poof!

MATT: So Keyleth goes ahead and casts– Is it Wind Walk?

MARISHA: Wind Walk.

MATT: All of you guys take a moment to transform into a mist form, and you all begin to coast right around the top of the trees, making your way south to the back of the Bramblewood. As soon as you exit the top of the trees, you can see Westruun ahead of you, and there are a number of interesting things that catch your attention. First and foremost, you see, halfway between the treetops to the south end of the forest and the very north part of Westruun, there appears to be a large, green open field with thicker patches of grassland here and there. There is a section that is a grassless dirt mound, that has, as you start coasting over you can see, what looks like spikes of wood, a couple of things that glimmer in the light as you pass over, and what looks like large grooves dug in a haphazard pattern. This patch is about 15 or 20 feet across, and you see two people bringing a cart away from it.

LAURA: Can we mist down a little closer to get a better view of what it is?

MATT: Yeah. These wispy people-clouds (wind).

TALIESIN: Those clouds look like half-elves!

MATT: No one seems to pay mind. The two individuals that went away with the cart are a little far from what you can see at this point, but they both appear to be humanoid, in no particular rush but they're hauling this large cart away. As you look, you can see in this patch of dirt, the glimmers that you saw was a smattering of gold and silver coins that appear to have been tossed into this pile. It looks like there are pieces of wood that have been broken and crushed in the giant grooves. Who's taking the intense look at this one right now? Okay, so the two of you, I want you to roll investigation checks.

TALIESIN: 18.

LAURA: Wow. No, 16 for me.

MATT: You recognize, and you get a feel for it too, because of your specialty in this, you notice that the giant grooves that tear into this are actually sweeping claw marks, like something of a large size and a very fast speed came down, and has come down multiple times, to snatch up something that was placed in this location.

LAURA: Oh, this is where they make their offerings.

TALIESIN: This is where the offerings are made.

LAURA: That's good to know. I have advantage on anything having to do with dragons.

MATT: Right, which, as you're seeing this now, yeah, you would gather the information with him as you did. Do you guys continue southward?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Coasting on the outskirts of the city?

LAURA: It's good to know that that's there, though.

TRAVIS: We could set an ambush later.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: You guys begin to coast around the outside of Westruun, drifting up above as well, this wispy pattern of clouds. You get a view of the external farmlands that dot the north-northwestern side of Westruun. A number of them appear to have been burned. Not like forest fire or cataclysmic meteorite, like intentionally burned. The crops are charred and black, and there's a pattern to how that was set. A few farmhouses also appear to have burned as well. But there are farmlands that are also functional, and you can see people tilling the land. I want everyone to make a perception check.

TRAVIS: A what?

LAURA: Perception.

TRAVIS: 14.

MARISHA: 16.

TALIESIN: 18.

SAM: Three!

LAURA: 31.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay, so people above 20 would be the twins. All right, so Vex and Vax, you guys look over these fields and two things you notice. One, each set of farmers that are working, there is a well-armed individual on the outskirts of each of these farms that is intently watching them work. As you're paying attention to this, one of them walks over and starts screaming at one and pushes them over, and then stands back and keeps guard. You also notice that the outside of the city, there appears to be some sort of construct or battlements, almost like another wall, a very thin wall, has been built around the various entrances to the city.

LAURA: They've imprisoned the people. We can't talk to each other.

MATT: Can't talk to each other, no, not in mist form.

TALIESIN: Just vape at each other.

TRAVIS: Do we keep going, or do we– Somebody make a choice. Down or keep going?

LAURA: I don't know what good we'll do right now.

MARISHA: Can't do anything right now.

TALIESIN: You're the only two that have noticed.

MATT: It's up to you guys. Do you guys want to go investigate, or do you want to keep going south?

LAURA: I mean, how many guards are there around there?

MATT: You only see two that are actually in the immediate farmland, and they're quite a walk away from the actual city. They don't appear to be on heavy lockdown.

LIAM: As wind, I'll pull in front of my sister and use windiness and wind hands and wind farts to put up a stop sign with my hands and point down if that's possible in this form.

MATT: Yeah, that's possible in the form. Vex, you see Vax, your brother, stop in front of you, put his hands up, and point downward with his hands.

LAURA: What do you want to do? What do you want? I noticed it too.

TALIESIN: I float on over to this.

LIAM: I'm going to go down and I'm going to motion for her to follow.

TALIESIN: All right, going down.

MATT: You guys all follow?

TALIESIN: I'll solidify on the ground.

SAM: I'm still thinking about, what were those big gashes in the ground back there?

MATT: Yeah, it was really confusing to you. All right, you guys all drift down towards the ground as you see Vax begin to take on physical form on the outskirts.

LAURA: Oh, shit. Can we stealth? As we come out of it, I want to cast Pass Without a Trace immediately.

MATT: Okay. Are you going down to the burnt farmland or one of the healthy farms?

LAURA: Can we go down in an area that there's shadow, to where we're hidden?

MATT: There are a few of the fields that are more high crop, corn-style stalks.

LAURA: Somewhere that when we take form, we'll be hidden.

TRAVIS: Just you two, right?

LAURA: I don't know.

TALIESIN: I'm going down, too.

TRAVIS: You three?

MATT: Okay. Percy, Vax, and Vex all take a moment to revert back to their physical form.

SAM: Oh, I'm reverting, too. I'm a follower.

MATT: All right, Scanlan. Keyleth?

MARISHA: I guess so.

TRAVIS: Wow, we're just going to make this super obvious, huh? There are dragons flying overhead.

TALIESIN: Well, we've landed.

MARISHA: We're in a corn field.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we've landed. Let's do it. We all want to die.

MATT: All right, so all of you, including Grog, or are you staying in your mist form?

TRAVIS: Fuck it. Let's do it. I'm changing.

MATT: You all take a moment to revert to your physical form. I would like everyone to make a stealth check.

LAURA: And I cast Pass Without a Trace, so it's extra ten.

MARISHA: Ooh! Natural 19.

TRAVIS: Hey, 18!

LAURA: 32.

LIAM: 25.

LAURA: Add ten!

LIAM: 35!

TALIESIN: 31.

SAM: 29.

MARISHA: 36.

SAM: We're all good.

TRAVIS: 28.

MATT: What did you get again?

LAURA: 32.

TALIESIN: You don't know we're here anymore.

MATT: Where'd the party go? You all begin to weave your way through the various lines of high-stalk crop. Where are you heading? Are you heading in towards the city, or are you heading towards the farmers?

LAURA: We just want to sit here for a minute and talk about it. Can we just say, so here's the thing. Those guards are attacking the farmers. I'm pretty sure they're using slave labor at this point. Kind of like you, Scanlan! Slave labor to provide food for the city. Vax really wanted to stop down, but the thing is, if we kill the guards and set the farmers free, everybody in the city might starve. It's a tough situation right now.

TALIESIN: Or they might just send more guards, once they know that one's been killed, and then kill everybody involved.

LAURA: I'm afraid right now I don't know what all we can do in this town until we can defeat the dragon, which unfortunately is rather close.

MARISHA: It's a bigger problem.

TALIESIN: We can't do anything for them right now until we actually know what's happening.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation, you can see there's a slight rustle, and a farmer comes across, carrying a small satchel as he's picking things off of one of the nearby areas.

TRAVIS: Is he close to us?

MATT: About 15 feet from you.

MARISHA: Does he see us?

MATT: He doesn't seem to notice you guys.

LAURA: I mean, we can tell him to hold out hope.

TALIESIN: Maybe he knows what's going on.

LAURA: He could also be one of the assholes that's serving the dragon, just like people in Emon.

TRAVIS: I go (clicks).

MATT: The farmer turns. (gasps) You now see him. It's a man in his late 40s, early 50s, gray beard.

TRAVIS: Shh! Help me out. Shh.

MATT: “Yeah…”

TRAVIS: Shh!

LAURA: Act natural!

TRAVIS: Keep picking!

LAURA: Keep picking!

MATT: He keeps picking.

LAURA: Hey, you. Do you like the dragon or do you not like the dragon?

TALIESIN: In the interest of the internet, we should probably do stage whispers.

LAURA: Do you like the dragon or do you not like the dragon?

MATT: You can see there's some heavy bruising on his face and part of his cheek is swollen. He goes, “It would be hard around these parts to find someone who likes a dragon, let alone that one.”

LAURA: Good.

MATT: “Not the worst of the worries right now, though.”

LAURA: What's the worst?

MATT: “The ones who work for him.”

LAURA: Right. So you have to provide food for everybody living in the city? Is that how that goes?

MATT: “Every one of them. Otherwise they just go ahead and steal from whoever's nearby. Isn't a caravan that's made their way past Westruun in the past week.”

LAURA: Well, here's the thing. We're trying to help you. We're trying to find a way to (clicking) (choking) kill the fucks. You get me? Ill-kay the agons-dray.

MATT: Drops the fruit he has in his hand. “Please! Please help us, please!”

LAURA: Act natural! Keep picking, keep picking, keep picking! We want to help you. We really, really, really want to help you.

MATT: “They have my daughter.”

LAURA: Oh, shit.

TALIESIN: Who's in charge?

SAM: Who has your daughter?

TALIESIN: No daughters right now.

MATT: “Those beasts.”

SAM: Beasts? What beasts?

LAURA: The guards? They're keeping your daughter?

MATT: “Keeping a lot of people.”

TRAVIS: Do you know where they keep them?

MATT: He leans over, nudges towards the direction of the city.

TALIESIN: Who's in charge?

MATT: “I don't know his name.”

SAM: And that spot that we saw, just outside of town, that's where gold is given to the dragon? Do you know anything of that?

MATT: He looks a little confused. “I don't know. They just take what we have.”

LIAM: The guy, you don't know his name. What does he look like? Where have you seen him?

LAURA: Keep your voice down!

LIAM: I'm talking through Skype, so it's a little more difficult for me!

MATT: Who are you talking about?

LIAM: The guy who's got your child. You don't know his name. What does he look like? Where have you seen him?

MATT: “I don't know. They're all different types, I haven't seen the one who has them. They have them.”

LAURA: They, the guards? The people that serve the dragon?

MARISHA: What type of people are they interested in?

MATT: “Half-orcs– Interested in? Whoever keeps him at bay. I don't know, they take whoever seems useful. Sometimes they take them and slaughter them before us as a warning.”

MARISHA: Then why did they take your daughter?

MATT: “I don't want to think about it.”

LAURA: To keep him working!

TRAVIS: Look. Say we were really bored, and we wanted to get you your family back. Where would you go?

MATT: He points over to the city. “But there's one right out…” And you see him pointing angrily around the corner, probably to the one that you saw on the outskirts of the farm area you guys came down in.

TALIESIN: Let's go to the city then, I suppose.

SAM: Wait, what?

LAURA: There's a dragon!

SAM: To do what, to attack half-orcs that work for a dragon?

LAURA: Farmer. What's your name?

MATT: “Reginald.”

LAURA: Reginald. Reginald, we want to help. How often do you see the dragon flying around?

MATT: “Once every couple days, maybe.”

LAURA: Once every couple days. When was the last time you saw him?

MATT: “About half a day ago. Dusk yesterday. I don't know. We all stay inside around that time just in case.”

MARISHA: Does he have patrols? Does he have wyverns working for him as well, that fly around?

MATT: “I haven't seen anything flying but the dragon. There was a huge fight not more than a week ago between these people and that thing. They seem to have come to an accord.”

MARISHA: These people?

SAM: The orcs?

MATT: “The orcs, the whatever they are. The big strong angry ones that keep taking all of our stuff.”

MARISHA: Oh, no.

LAURA: (gasps)

SAM: What, what?

LAURA: What do they look like?

MARISHA: Do they look like him, maybe?

MATT: “Some do.”

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck me.

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: Fuck, fuck, fuck!

MATT: “The dragon came in and tore everything down.”

TRAVIS: Damn it. Shit hammer.

MATT: “Burned, liquefied, dissolved portions of this city, people screaming. And then it left. Both of them.”

SAM: You'll be okay. We're going to keep going. Good luck.

TRAVIS: No, wait, wait.

LAURA: Scanlan!

SAM: No, we have to keep going. We can't face these goliaths and dragons and orc guards! This is craziness!

MARISHA: One of the dragons was green?

MATT: “From what we saw.”

LAURA: Green and a black.

MATT: “Green and a black. I think a white one, but that one kept going.

SAM: I mean, we'll be fine.

MARISHA: And the green one kept going?

MATT: "All of them kept going. We thought we were safe. We tried to re-gather. And then, within a day, a bunch of these bastards came and took what was left. Slaughtering, stealing.”

TRAVIS: We've got to go get his kid.

LAURA: I feel like we have to help them. We have to help them!

MARISHA: Oh man. I feel like you all are talking like I normally do, and I'm talking like Grog normally does. This is such a weird day.

SAM: No, you're using way too many prepositions.

TRAVIS: You said there are a lot of people that look like me.

MATT: “From what I've seen. I don't go too far into town, they keep me out here, but I've seen a few.”

LAURA: I'm keeping an eye out for the guard. I want to keep an eye out for the guard, make sure he's not noticing.

MATT: Perception check.

TRAVIS: They're in the city?

MATT: “Most of them are, yeah.”

SAM: Were there six of them?

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17, okay. You don't see the guard nearby.

TRAVIS: We need that guard.

MARISHA: What are we going to do right now?

TRAVIS: We're going to ask him some questions.

MARISHA: This is a coup on a grander scale than Whitestone that we're talking about.

TRAVIS: I just want the guard.

SAM: Where's the guard? Can we see him?

MATT: You guys want to try and find him?

LAURA: Well, I saw him on the other side of the thingie.

MATT: Okay. You guys begin making your way towards the direction that Vex saw the guard. You start pushing through the crop, making your way to the edge, and at the point where these high crops end, it opens up into what looks like a heavy root-based field. Potatoes, carrots, things that are beneath the ground. You guys see across the way the two other farmers that were out there, the one that you saw being loosely beaten, they're both filling satchels and emptying them into two larger carts that are put up to horses, one of them a larger pony. You see what appears to be another hulking humanoid, taller than an average person, skin slightly gray, a smattering of tattoos across the body. You recognize–

LIAM: And best we can tell, he's the only guard? The only one?

TRAVIS: No, there's two. There's two.

LAURA: I have an idea!

SAM: Wait, he was about to tell us who it is.

MATT: From what you can see, you actually recognize this individual.

TRAVIS: Fucking nipple tassels!

MATT: This is an individual that you knew quite a ways ago, a young goliath who was still about a half a foot shorter than you when you knew him. He was named Horace, because he hated it, and Kevdak gave him this name and you actually, at some point in the past, recall even giving Horace a good beating. A little of the smaller of the goliaths you've encountered. This is years later. This punk kid, and he was kind of a punk, has grown up now, and is still smaller than you by a size, but still seems to be every bit of an agitating little bitch you remember, from the way that he's treating these people.

TRAVIS: Is he holding anything?

MATT: Not in his hand at the moment, no, but he does have across the back what looks to be some sort of large blade sheathed.

LAURA: Can I give my idea?

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: What if we ask Reginald to call for help, like he needs this fuck's help, and then he comes over, and then we spring a trap on him.

MARISHA: That's not a bad idea.

LAURA: I can use Hide in Plain Sight on us, and hide us, and make us look like we're part of the crops.

TRAVIS: I love it.

LAURA: To set an ambush.

TRAVIS: I love it.

LIAM: And the goal is to question this guy or to take him out? To question, yeah?

TRAVIS: We're going to ask him questions, and if he makes a peep– Hold on, before we do that. Can you see the other guard that was out here?

MATT: Glancing about, because it is a pretty open area, you can see the secondary guard is walking away, looking to check one of the other homesteads. There is a farmhouse.

TRAVIS: It's like Kansas, right, it's flat?

MATT: Yep, it's flat farmland on the outside of Westruun. As soon as you break the south side of the Bramblewood, it's just plain.

TRAVIS: What distance would you put him at? How far away would you put him? 100 yards?

LAURA: The other guard?

MATT: I'd say the other guard's probably a good 400 feet.

TRAVIS: Do it.

LAURA: Yeah?

TRAVIS: Do it.

LAURA: Can I take a minute to camouflage us and then tell Reginald to call him over?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: When he comes over, I grab him. Nobody do anything that's loud.

LAURA: Got it.

MATT: Okay. So, as you all take a moment, stepping into parts of the stalks of the edge of this land, Vex, you go ahead and start taking up leaves, patches of dirt, mud from freshly watered ground, and you start smattering the rest of the group with it. You guys are going full Arnold from Predator. You begin to blend into the vicinity.

MARISHA: Question. Could I work with Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

MARISHA: I have Entangle learned today. Could we fashion a quick Entangle trap, where when the guy steps into it he'll be entangled? Or I could maybe just be prepared for it?

MATT: You can be prepared for it when it happens.

MARISHA: I'll be prepared for it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to draw her a little sketch of something that would spring, that you can make out of wood.

MATT: The spell expends when cast, so it's more of waiting to release it. To make it as part of a set trap, that would be a consumable trap you would have to construct.

MARISHA: All right. I'll just be prepped with it.

MATT: Okay. So you guys all have hidden.

LAURA: Reginald.

MATT: He's behind you guys, watching all of this happen. “Yes?”

LAURA: Act like you're still picking and act like you hurt your ankle, and call for help from that guard over there. We'll protect you.

MATT: “Promise?”

TRAVIS: Yeah, I promise.

MARISHA: And try and maybe keep a bit of a distance, because I'm going to be doing a trap here. It's going to be 20 feet. You don't want to be in it.

LAURA: Just step back and call for help.

MARISHA: Just step back, all right?

MATT: So you guys are all working on the very edge of where these crop fields begin. Reginald pushes through a little bit, and goes, “Ow! Ow! Ow!” You hear in the distance a voice go, “Hey you! What's your problem?” He goes, “My ankle!” And he starts hobbling into the crop. “You shut your trap! It's your fucking ankle! What's that stupid– Oh, you–” (grunts) He starts lumbering up. “I'm going to teach you about letting a peep out of that stupid maw of yours! I'm going to beat that face so hard it can't make a noise ever again! Stupid git!”

TALIESIN: And now.

MARISHA: (whoosh)

LAURA: The minute he's in the high crops so he's out of visual from the other guard.

MATT: Okay. So as soon as he steps into the high crop area.

MARISHA: I'm waiting for Percy's cue.

TALIESIN: Now!

MATT: All right. So what are the specifics of the Entanglement spell?

MARISHA: 20 feet.

SAM: It always works and it catches whoever you want!

MARISHA: It always works…

MATT: All of a sudden all of the crops, all of the large stalks and vines start (whoosh) wrapping around his body.

LAURA: Shit, mother bitch!

SAM: What's wrong?

LAURA: That's a bit obvious.

MARISHA: Is it obvious?

MATT: It's once he's inside the area, so it's not like the wall on the outside.

LAURA: Okay. I was picturing all the plants suddenly losing their shit.

MATT: No, just the ones in the immediate vicinity.

SAM: Like a used car lot?

MATT: Okay, so he's going to attempt to make a strength saving throw.

LIAM: I'm going to squat at the edge of the high crops and keep an eye on the other guard who was walking off just to make sure he's oblivious.

MATT: Make a perception check, if you could, Vax. Surprised so he has disadvantage on the saving throw. What's the DC?

MARISHA: Me? 19.

MATT: 19? That's a failure. All right, and what?

LIAM: 28.

MATT: 28! Yeah, Vax, keeping an eye, the guard doesn't seem to have kept notice and continues walking off towards the distant farmhouse. The plants all wrap around his body and he: “What's this? Stupid– ”

TRAVIS: I run over and I tackle him, knock him to the ground, put my hand over his mouth, punch him in the forehead. Punch him again. Punch him a third time. And I barely lift my hand.

MATT: “You motherfucker– ”

TRAVIS: Punch him again.

MATT: At this point, now he's got blood pouring out of the corner of the eye. One eye has gone a little red from burst vessels. You can see it starting to swell up already. Blood's now pouring out the side of the nose where you've hit it, and he's still fighting even though the plants have kept him entangled. As soon as the calm comes to him (heavy breathing).

TRAVIS: (sing-song) Horace.

MATT: The eyes go wide and all the tension in the body loosens. “Fucking hell.”

TRAVIS: (muffled) Fucking hell.

MATT: You're still holding his face? (muffled) “Fucking hell.”

TRAVIS: I'm going to move my hand. If you make a sound, wash, rinse, repeat, yeah? Nod. Shut the fuck up.

MATT: He spits a couple teeth out the side of his mouth.

TRAVIS: You're looking big.

MATT: “You're supposed to be dead. You're supposed to be fucking dead. I watched you beaten to death. "Why the fuck are you still alive?”

TRAVIS: Yeah, right. Funny thing about me. So look, who else is out in this field with you right now?

MATT: “No one. It's me and Cole, but Cole's heading back to the city. We have other ones passed out around, but most of them stay in town, especially during the day. That's where the festivities are.”

LAURA: Festivities?

MATT: “Do you want back in? You're alive, man. Now's the time. It's a good time for the herd.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, no I want back in, for sure. That's what I've come here for: to come back in. But here's the thing. It's a bit of a surprise, right? Other people haven't seen me. You like a good surprise, right, Horace?

MATT: “Yeah?”

TRAVIS: Yeah. I thought you might. Here's my question: have you seen my cousin Zanror? Is he in the city?

MATT: “Probably, aye.”

TRAVIS: Right. And what about Kevdak?

MATT: “Kevdak stays in the city, as well. Up at the old Margrave's place, actually. Turned it into his palace. Want me to take you?”

TALIESIN: Before we go any further, what do I roll if I want to find out if Horace really does like surprises? I'm not kidding.

MATT: Make an insight check. All of you guys are still hidden, by the way, unless you want to do something.

TALIESIN: No, I'm just watching.

LAURA: And we gained another plus ten, so now we have plus 20 to all of our stealth, by the way, from that Hide in Plain Sight.

SAM: Wait, what?

LAURA: We have Pass Without a Trace, which adds plus ten, Hide in Plain Sight adds plus ten. That's what I camouflaged us fucking for.

SAM: How do you have all these things?

MATT: All of you guys make another stealth check with plus 20.

MARISHA: Natural 20, so 40. Actually, I have a stealth of seven.

LAURA: 46.

TALIESIN: 43.

MARISHA: 47.

MATT: You guys have never been seen. Retroactively, no one's ever seen you in your entire lives.

TALIESIN: I could fire my gun, at this point, and they'd be like, oh, rain's coming.

MATT: If it was Bad News, it would still probably break stealth.

TALIESIN: Well, if it was Bad News, yeah.

MATT: Okay, unless you rolled a one. Yeah, no. (laughs) Horace hasn't seen anyone. “I could take you in.”

TRAVIS: Right, listen. I was going to pounce on this poor farmer over here, but I saw you were obviously keeping your eye on him. Why are you doing that?

MATT: “Which one are you talking about? Reggie?”

TRAVIS: Yeah. Old Broken Foot over here.

MATT: (laughs) “He's a little bitch, that one is. No, but you know what? I caught him sniffing around. I think he's keeping some gold hidden.”

TRAVIS: Really? Gold? This poor farmer?

MATT: “Twisted his arm a couple of times.”

TRAVIS: Have you?

MATT: “We could do this for old times' sake. Each take an arm, pull until he tells us.”

TRAVIS: Oh, like wishbone?

MATT: “Yeah.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, that does sound like a good idea. Here's my thing. Why are you guys in this city? It's not really our thing to be in civilized places.

MATT: “Here's the thing. Let me get loose here for a minute. I'm feeling a bit uncomfortable.”

TRAVIS: No, I don't think I will, Horace.

MATT: “Okay. We were heading up north. We took out a small caravan just south of the road cuts, near the Silvercut Way, and all of a sudden out of the sky, we saw these streaking dragons come through. Largest I've ever seen. Dangerous as the day's long. So we fled. We watched them come here and tear into this city. Rend it, destroy it, smoke and flames and ice and all sorts of craziness. And they kept going. We figured, dragons come, didn't take the spoils, there's plenty of spoils for us. More than we could ever dream of. Most of it's pretty well-guarded, but there couldn't be much left over there. So we gathered up who we had, and mind you, the herd's swelled a bit since you left, my friend. We conquered another wandering tribe last year. Zanror took the head of their leader and commanded them to join. We're about a hundred strong these days.”

TRAVIS: Jesus.

MARISHA: Fuck.

MATT: “Pecking order. Still us goliaths at the top. We got all sorts of other piddly men.”

TRAVIS: Really?

MATT: “Half-men, half-orcs. A few brutalized elves here and there. They make cooking easy. Anyway, we took that moment and we rushed into the town. Took it before the day was over. Killed all who didn't bow before Kevdak himself. Days of revelry ensued, my friend. Oh, you missed out. Wine, women, gold. We took what we wanted until one of them dragons came back. Black one. Scary. Killed a lot of us. We weren't so much a hundred strong then, but by the end of that we had 50 or 60 to our name before the anger finally stopped. Kevdak bent a knee and made an offering to this dragon.”

TRAVIS: Kevdak did?

MATT: “I know. But trust me, you see a beast this size… it was survival through a mutual discussion, if you will. Promised our might to its worship, gathered our spoils, deliver it every now and then. We got to have the leftovers. We rule the city in its stead. Not a bad deal. Doesn't watch. We leave it what we find– most of it, at least, we keep a little on the side– and we live like kings here. Westruun is now property of the herd.”

TRAVIS: Well, it sounds really good.

MATT: “You've missed out, and there's quite a few openings now, since we've lost a few of the less than strong folk. You look strapping. I'm sure Kevdak would be more than happy to have you back.”

TRAVIS: I do. I've actually brought a few gifts.

LAURA: (whispering) I notch an arrow.

TRAVIS: I unsheathe Craven Edge.

MATT: “That's a good blade.”

TRAVIS: Isn't it. And I ask out loud, are you hungry?

MATT: “It's been probably half a day since breakfast. Aye. Why?” His expression begins to shift as realization begins to dawn on his face.

TRAVIS: I pull it back. I stick the point in between his ribcage, and I drive it up through him.

(shocked noises)

MATT: Before he can say a word– he tries to speak through the pain, but it's met with the gurgle as various bodily fluids fill the inside of his lungs and throat.

TRAVIS: Oh, more?

MATT: The blade, now, you can see (choking noise) peeks through the back of the mouth as his eyes go ever so dull, the rest of the blood flow pouring out the sides of his mouth.

TRAVIS: Pity that, acid reflux.

LAURA: Grog! Oh shit. Good job, there.

MARISHA: Vex?

MATT: As this is happening, the blood that has filled the mouth begins to seep back into the mouth. The trails are still there, but what was once filled to the brim has been slowly recessed, swallowed. Not by the unmoving body of Horace, but the dark blade itself now drawing from the inside.

LAURA: What the fuck is that sword, Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: What is your sword doing?

TRAVIS: Nothing. It takes in the strength of who it slays.

LAURA: It takes in the blood?

TRAVIS: Did it do that?

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: You killed him. Was he related to you in some way?

TRAVIS: I don't know. I remember him. He was always a little shit.

MARISHA: Grog, do you remember killing him five seconds ago?

TRAVIS: Who?

MARISHA: Oh no. You guys.

LAURA: The little dude. Your little friend?

TRAVIS: Horace?

LAURA: You killed him. On purpose?

TRAVIS: Sure.

LAURA: You wanted to?

TRAVIS: Yeah, he was going to go tell about us.

MARISHA: You were conscious of that?

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Is it me?

SAM: You're using too-big words.

TRAVIS: So listen, right? Either we stay and do some recon, or we take out the other guy that's walking back to the city. Really shouldn't be a problem. But if they're all in there, 50 strong, I don't think we're quite ready for that. The sneaky fucks in our group could go take a look, if you're feeling randy.

SAM: What would be our mission?

TRAVIS: Info only.

SAM: You killed this one quite easily.

MARISHA: Very easily.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but that's because we did it as a group.

MARISHA: Did we?

LAURA: Could we wait until nightfall?

SAM: I'm going to check out his body. See if there's any booty on his body.

LAURA: Well, as soon as we move, we won't be camouflaged in this crop anymore. We'll lose that.

MARISHA: Yeah, we won't look like crops.

MATT: As the stalks unwind, leaving his defiled body and you draw the blade free, Scanlan, you find, across the body, there is a simple, slightly chipped-but-still-functional greatsword that was sheathed in the back, wrapped in a haphazard hide that functioned as a scabbard. Mostly just leather pants, a few furs, looks to be a bone necklace and a bone bracelet around the wrist which looks to be teeth, human teeth. About 27 gold pieces in total change.

TRAVIS: How far are we from the city here?

MATT: About a five-minute walk.

TRAVIS: Five-minute walk. That's not far.

LAURA: Keyleth, can you use your powers to suck him into the ground so that nobody sees him?

TALIESIN: I honestly don't think they're going to find him, anyway.

LAURA: I use my abilities and try to camouflage the body so that nobody finds him.

MATT: You pull him up into one of the walls of the plant stalks and set him in there, mounding up whatever bits of fallen leaves and dirt you can. He's pretty well-hidden.

MARISHA: I use my Druidcraft to grow some flowers on top of the dirt.

MATT: Some flowers come up there. Some of the local leaves from the stalks bend down and help cover him up.

TALIESIN: Leave a couple of his human teeth that he's collected–

SAM: I'll leave all his human teeth, I'm not gonna take that shit.

MARISHA: Great, so very successful trip. Stopping down.

LAURA: Reggie?

LIAM: His partner's still long-gone.

TRAVIS: That guard?

LAURA: The other guard, yeah?

MATT: The guard's gone. Reggie's still sitting there, watched this whole thing happen. Looking at you and goes, “You did good. You did good.”

TRAVIS: I know I did. Just imagine what we'll do to the rest of them.

MATT: “Thank you. Thank you.”

SAM: Are we going to do anything to the rest of them?

LAURA: Right now?

TALIESIN: I think we're going to go take a look.

TRAVIS: I don't mind you taking a look, but be careful.

TALIESIN: We can also still turn into mist.

MARISHA: We can.

LAURA: They can't hurt us when we're mist.

SAM: We can all mist and go into the city and check it out.

LAURA: See what we see.

TALIESIN: Be fast and stealthy.

LAURA: Can we stealth while we're misting?

SAM: It doesn't matter if they see us, they can't do anything to us.

MATT: Yeah, it would be being conscious of the cloud patterns in the sky, moving with the wind in a way where you become less noticeable as something strange. So it's possible.

LAURA: Let's try that, so we can spy on the city! Get closer in.

TRAVIS: It feels kind of cheap.

LAURA: Why?

TRAVIS: I don't know.

LAURA: At least if we go in, Grog, we can see what we're up against.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but can't we use our eyes? Just as they are. Do we have to turn to smoke this time?

MARISHA: Why would we not?

TRAVIS: It feels a little cowardly.

LAURA: It's not cowardly, Grog, it's safe.

SAM: You can stay behind.

LIAM: What if Vex and I went as mist, just the two of us, quickly? Just the two of us.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's fine.

TALIESIN: I may join you two for this as well.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: And what are the rest of us going to do? Just wait? Me, Scanlan, and Grog?

TRAVIS: You can turn into a cloud, and float in there, and see what you want to see, but I'm not turning into mist when my herd is inside that city. If I go in, I'm going in.

SAM: As Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: So why don't we just not go in right now?

SAM: Why don't you all go in, I'll stay back with Grog.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: Not crazy-ish.

MATT: All right, the four of you convert into mist form, crest up over the edge and start drifting your way over the top of Westruun, leaving Scanlan, Grog, and Reginald amongst the crops.

TRAVIS: Reginald, you want some ale?

MATT: “Do you have some?”

TRAVIS: No, I do, yeah, hold on. Get the cask out, pour him a cup.

MATT: He drinks thirstily, both because he seems genuinely thirsty, and second, it seems like he could use a long, hard drink.

TRAVIS: Pace yourself, son, there's a lot that's here.

MATT: “I've been drinking longer than you've been alive, friend.” Just (guzzles).

TRAVIS: Wow. Another?

MATT: “Yeah.”

TRAVIS: I'll keep them coming.

MATT: And, for that, we'll take a quick break, come back here. See you guys here in a few minutes, and we'll continue this story. See you in a minute!
Break

[break]
Part II

TALIESIN: Cock goblin.

MATT: Welcome back! Ha ha, they got it on stream! Sorry, Liam, we're not as good as you are at it. So, guys, quick note before we get back into the game. Apparently, the shirt link wasn't working earlier, it is working now. They got it functional, so go ahead and hop on now while you can. Returning from the break, as Grog and Scanlan sit, waiting to hear back from the rest of the team, traversing over towards Westruun, seeking information in their mist forms. The two of you remain behind. The four of you guys who are in mist form, where are you going?

LAURA: Can we stealthily head towards a pocket of people? Do we see a crowd of people being held?

MATT: This is your mist form?

LAURA: This is my mist form.

MATT: Ocean. I like it. I'd like you guys to make stealth checks.

LAURA: Stealth checks!

MARISHA: Do we still have Pass Without a Trace?

LAURA: Yes! 39.

LIAM: 42.

TALIESIN: 33.

MARISHA: 24.

MATT: You guys make your way across the rest of the fields. You head over Cole, you can see walking his way to the outside of the western side of the city. You come towards the bottom of the gate. You can see the rigid, small fence structure you noticed when you were far away from the city becomes more clearly visible. It is a series of spears and pikes that are set up as a barrier or a barricade to the outside world to Westruun. You do see adorned atop a number of them a few heads, varying sizes, various people, various ages.

MARISHA: Does this appear to be goliath-built?

MATT: It's hard to say. It looks built.

LAURA: And the spikes are facing inward towards the city, or outward?

MATT: Outwards. There are breaks in it, but essentially it's partially a pseudo-defense mechanism, it's more as a warning, it's a point of intimidation.

MARISHA: So does it look pretty jerry-rigged?

MATT: Yeah. It's not anything too classically designed.

LIAM: No flying buttresses?

MATT: Not quite, no.

TALIESIN: Doric columns, oh my god! Awful! Tacky!

MATT: You coast over the outside wall and glance down within. You can see there are people wandering the town, townsfolk that are out in the streets. Many of them are in pairs or groups, two to four people, appear to be traveling from one place to another. Most of them are accompanied by one or two armed individuals. Some of the people have chains around their neck. You do see a number of these buildings are in ruins, patchwork places. Some are just crushed. Some appear to have been melted down, like the wood or stonework itself has been dissolved into a pile of matter. You see places where fires have broken out and some places have burned into a giant cluster of ash and broken wood. A quick memory glance at this height, you start looking for specific areas that you recall from memory. One: you glance over and see where you first came to meet Pike, where she and Wilhand lived. That area is the area of town that was, apparently, salvaged from the battle. It still stands, there appears to be very minimal impact. As you give yourself enough closeness to check in, the red brick homestead of Wilhand does appear to be standing.

LAURA: Can we see Wilhand anywhere?

MATT: At this distance, no. You also note, towards the shopping district of Westruun, there is the shop of Abjurist Noja, one of your first enchanter friends who protected you during your first Winter's Crest.

MARISHA: Yeah! He cast the protection spell on us!

TALIESIN: This is making me feel very old.

MATT: His structure is still standing as well. A few buildings around did not fare so well, but his shop and a number of other ones adjacent to it seem to still be standing. You can't really tell if they're functional, or how busy they are, or if anyone's doing anything with them, but that's still there. You do notice, though, at numerous parts of the street, there are just piles and piles of burnt wood and ash, like they're large burn piles that were set at different periods of time and have long since burned. Little bits of white, post-burning plumes that still smolder over the past few days. You're not quite sure what these piles contained at the time they were set ablaze. There is still the worship district here. You have the various temples. Best you can glance, a few of them have been partially toppled. There is damage to some of the buildings. Still too far away to make out any specific details beyond that, some of the structures having taken a hit in previous conflicts. You're not sure from which source.

LAURA: What about the mayor's house where we heard Horace–?

MATT: The Margrave's. Towards the southern central portion of Westruun, south of the main town square where the bulk of your first Winter's Crest festival here in Westruun took place. The Margrave's house is at the very southernmost portion of that. That entire square is lined with row after row of sharpened wood sticks and various other weapons, tridents, broken swords that have been, with ropes, strapped together to form a military barricade. If anything were to attempt to attack from the ground, it would be difficult to do so if this area was filled with prepared soldiers, using these as protective guard. The actual Margrave's home is intact, although at this glance, you can see a lot of it has been defiled, elements of the outside walls are strewn with dark burgundy paint slapped over. You can see what looks to be some sort of strings adorning edges of it, like decoration. You see, walking through this area, what looks to be 12 or 13 or so armed individuals of varying heights. Probably a good six or seven goliaths among them. Others appear to be human, half-orc, it's hard to make out the full details from this distance. They're all on the outskirts surrounding what was previously the Margrave's home. Now the homestead of Kevdak, seemingly.

LAURA: Can we see Kevdak anywhere?

MATT: You have no idea what Kevdak looks like.

LAURA: I look for a bigger goliath than the rest, or one that looks older and bigger.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16. At this distance, it's hard to make out any specific details. You can barely make out the fact that they're goliath. It's only because you've traveled with Grog so long you can pick out the details, the hairless form, the tattoos, the general tone of skin. They're male and female, it's a smattering of all different types of goliaths. Some of different thickness, some that are a little more barrel-chested and wide, some that are a little shorter. There are other similarly dressed individuals that are not goliaths as well, but they seem to be more of a subservient role within the herd than the goliaths that would be the ruling class within this self-contained society. But no one stands out to you as matching the descriptions of Kevdak that Grog gave you.

TALIESIN: The mansion seems to be where they've based their operations, though.

MATT: Seemingly.

LAURA: We don't see a cluster of prisoners anywhere out in the open?

TALIESIN: Where's the prison I was being held in?

MATT: The prison you were being held in was in the Umbra Hills. That's far north of Westruun.

LIAM: That's when we fought the Nightmare.

LAURA: Yeah!

TALIESIN: (laughs) (imitates Laura) Yeah!

LAURA: Do we see a cluster?

MATT: Do you see a what?

LAURA: A cluster of prisoners out in the open at all, or is it just out around–?

MATT: It's hard to tell because most everyone who lives here is, in some, way, shape, or form a prisoner. You do see at the various gates of the city as you went through, there's about three, four individuals average stationed there. Nobody seems to be entering or exiting. And the pace of those that are not of the herd that you see walking through the city has a feel of hopelessness, or at least their presence outdoors is more of function. They do what they're told, and if they're not, you've already seen what happens to them.

MARISHA: Now what?

TALIESIN: Maybe stealth isn't– maybe Grog's right– we can't talk, can we?

MARISHA: No, we're fucking clouds.

LAURA: Can we say go back to the–

LIAM: Yeah, I'm gesturing to go. Get out.

LAURA: Yeah, let's go back.

MATT: Make a stealth check, guys, on the way out.

SAM: 93.

TRAVIS: Scanlan and I have been alone.

LAURA: 39.

MARISHA: 32.

LIAM: 44.

TALIESIN: 26.

MATT: Okay! You guys make your way westward. Is there anything you guys wanted to accomplish while they were gone?

SAM: Just massage each other.

TRAVIS: Right, so I turn to Scanlan. And I say: you and I are mates, right?

SAM: Yes, the best of mates.

TRAVIS: Right. Could I confide something in you?

SAM: I wasn't aware that you knew what that word meant.

TRAVIS: (clears throat) Right. Well, I'm full of surprises. One of which is– so, I had this horrible dream recently, and in the dream, I was killing all these people with this amazing sword that I have.

SAM: Yes?

TRAVIS: But there were a lot of people, and some of the people that got killed I knew. And I feel it has something to do with this sword that I have. And the secret is: I can hear the sword talking to me.

SAM: Like, talking-talking, or you just–

TRAVIS: Yeah, look, so I'm telling you because you and I have such a history, right? And I feel like you won't judge me, but, like, I'm afraid the rest of the group won't quite understand. I don't know if I'm crazy or if this sword is talking to me.

SAM: Do you see a mouth on it or anything?

TRAVIS: No, I just hear a voice and I was wondering if maybe I take it out–

SAM: All the time?

TRAVIS: No, only when I'm holding it. So, like, I could take it out now and we could see maybe if you hear it.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: So I take out Craven Edge.

MATT: You take out Craven Edge, you hold it out in front of you.

TRAVIS: Craven Edge. How did you enjoy your snack?

MATT: “It was a good snack. A snack it was. If there's more where that came from, I would be so thankful.”

TRAVIS: Are you getting that?!

SAM: No, Grog, I'm not.

TRAVIS: You're not hearing anything? No, like, super sexy (low-pitched growl) voice? Nothing?

SAM: Try one more time.

TRAVIS: No, it's not worth it. Look, do you want to hold the sword?

SAM: Sure! That's a good idea, actually! Can I hold the sword? How big is it?

MATT: It's a greatsword. It's almost twice the length of your whole body and probably weighs close to as much as you do.

SAM: Can you hold the top part and I'll just hold it by the handle, the hilty-part?

TRAVIS: I hold the blade, and I hand the hilt towards Scanlan.

MATT: As you hand the hilt over towards him, there's hesitation in the voice, “Only you are worthy of holding me. You will hand me to no one.”

TRAVIS: (grunts) See, now, now, now, Craven, I'm starting to feel like I'm doubting myself. I'm seeing things– he's talking to me.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: I'm going to take it right back, I just want him to experience your glory.

MATT: Make a charisma check.

TRAVIS: Shit. Fuck. That's bad.

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: (gulp) Seven.

MATT: Seven? Okay. You can't give the sword up. It means too much, and the voice in your head says, “Only those proven worthy to feed me can carry me. And you, Grog–”

SAM: Grog, hand me the sword.

TRAVIS: (pained) No. On second thought, don't worry about it. It's clearly– and I take it back– it's not, it's just– maybe I just need to see someone or talk to somebody. Clearly, I mean, you don't– it's talking, you don't hear it, right?

SAM: I don't hear it, but maybe if you handed it to me, I could.

TRAVIS: No, it's really heavy, too. And I sheathe it.

SAM: Do I believe him?

MATT: Make an insight check.

SAM: Not good.

MATT: Grog, make a deception check.

SAM: Not good! Seven!

TRAVIS: Three!

(laughing)

MATT: Grog's not the most able liar, you glean. You're pretty good at seeing past the deceit of others. This definitely falls under the line of deceit, as adorable as it is to see him try.

SAM: Grog, you want to give me the sword. And I will cast Suggestion on him.

LAURA: Ooh!

MATT: Is it a wisdom saving throw?

SAM: I haven't used it in a while, and I don't have my thing.

MATT: I'll pull it up real fast, just to make sure. I'm pretty sure it is.

TALIESIN: I think it is.

MATT: Yep, make a wisdom saving throw.

TRAVIS: Giant modifier on this one. 16. With a modifier of zero.

SAM: Well, 18, if I'm not using my thing.

MATT: Not using the cone, so no, it still fails. So you feel compelled now to give this sword. You're like, no, that's a great idea.

TRAVIS: You know what? That's a great idea! I feel like you should hold this sword. And I hold on to the blade, but I still hand the hilt to him.

MATT: As he holds up the sword towards you, you grasp the handle. As his hand touches it, the voice goes, “No! Only you can wield me!” Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw again.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: I'm sorry, that's a charisma saving throw.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19?

TRAVIS: Yeah, plus one.

MATT: All right. You feel the influence of the blade begin into creep into your mind, but the bond you have with Scanlan and the time you've traveled together, you manage to shrug it off. Fighting that impulse, you still hand the blade over. You take the handle. You let go of the weapon. You hold it in your hand now. It's a (heavy thud).

TALIESIN: You ruin everything good! You take everything good away from all of us!

SAM: Well, it's heavy.

TALIESIN: Throw it into acid, why don't you?!

TRAVIS: Ask it a question!

SAM: Oh! I talk to it?

TRAVIS: Yeah! And it'll talk right back, it's like that!

SAM: Oi, Craven Edge. Have you been talking to my friend Grog?

MATT: There's a long beat of silence. And then a barely audible (annoyed sigh).

LIAM: Sing to it!

MATT: All of a sudden, you hear this tiny voice creep up in the back of your head: “If you truly wish to hold me in your grasp, I require you to prove to me your worthiness.”

TRAVIS: Is it saying something?

SAM: No.

TRAVIS: No?! It's not saying anything?!

SAM: Craven Edge? How do I prove I'm worthy?

TRAVIS: What?

(laughing)

MATT: The blade, all of a sudden, it almost seems to have a slight shift of its own, like a divining rod, and it moves. And the blade shifts away from the direction of you and Grog and gently shifts down the way to an older gentleman who's now returned to picking a few crops and it points in his direction and says, “Prove to me.”

LAURA: Is it Reggie?

MATT: Pointing to Reginald.

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: Not Reggie!

TRAVIS: Why are you pointing it at Reggie?

SAM: I don't think I can. I don't think I want to. So I think I'll try to give the sword back to Grog.

MATT: Make a charisma check.

SAM: Is this magic?

MATT: It's not a spell. Let me double-check, if you're referring to the gnomish racial capability. Let me go ahead and check the rules here, because this could make a difference here.

SAM: Well, it's fine.

MATT: Against magic? I'll say yes, because it's technically a magical entity.

SAM: Natural 20.

TALIESIN: Witchcraft!

MATT: The sheer force of personality that begins to exude from this weapon, you sense that it is old, it has seen many a hand, and has probably taken far many more a life. But it's not met a gnome like you before, Scanlan Shorthalt.

TALIESIN: (singing) Never known a gnome like you before!

SAM: Take this back, will you?

TRAVIS: Yeah! I take it back. It talked to you, then, yeah?

SAM: Yes, it did.

TRAVIS: Right, it's creepy as shit.

SAM: It's very compelling. I don't know if you should have this, Grog.

TRAVIS: (confused sputtering) Now, hold on! I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't fucking, you know, batshit crazy, which I'm not! And I'm really glad that we're sharing in this now. But hey! Hey! Don't tell anyone. Promise me.

SAM: All right. I won't tell anyone. But I might have to ask some questions about this.

TRAVIS: No, that's why I brought you in! You're all smart, right? And I always want to ask questions like, what's the first thing it remembers, what was it doing with Lord Briarwood–?

SAM: Does it tell you to kill things?

TRAVIS: No!

SAM: A lot? I know it does, it just told me to kill something.

TRAVIS: You must be a dark wizard.

SAM: Does it tell you to kill things?

TRAVIS: No! It just says it's hungry.

MATT: At which point, you both hear a voice simultaneously go, “Always hungry.”

SAM: Yeah!

TRAVIS: You heard it that time! Holy shit! I feel like Kevin Costner in Field of Dreams and you're James Earl Jones! I've got a friend in this now!

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Oh boy.

TRAVIS: Right, so, look, you know.

SAM: We should not tell the others about this. This is very strange.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: They might freak out.

TRAVIS: Right!

SAM: I'm going to ask about this. When next we see Pike, I'll ask her about it.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Find out if it's good or bad or neutral. Because I don't know anything about this. Right, I don't know anything about this?

MATT: Make an arcana check.

TRAVIS: It could be good; there's nothing wrong with being hungry.

SAM: 12.

MATT: 12. It seems magical.

SAM: Yeah, I don't know. Don't know anything about this.

MATT: As a bard, you understand that there are certain artifacts, weapons that either upon their creation, upon their development, had the essence of a creature or soul put into it. Or, conversely, the weapon came into being as its own personality. You're not sure of the nature of this, and you're unable to ascertain which side of the spectrum it lies on as far as morality goes.

SAM: I'll do some investigating. In the meantime, try not to kill anyone in our party. If it tells you to.

TRAVIS: I would never!

SAM: Well.

TRAVIS: Never!

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: No, yeah there's never even, like–

SAM: Let's just keep this between us.

TRAVIS: Yeah, totes.

SAM: Just like that time in Emon when we–

TRAVIS: Yep!

SAM: –double-teamed–

TRAVIS: The Eiffel Tower!

SAM: Yep!

TRAVIS: Yep! All right!

SAM: It was a–

TALIESIN: Oh, that went up my nose!

LAURA: Ugh!

MATT: At which point, a few clusters of wind come landing out of the sky.

MARISHA: What? Green lights?

LAURA: That's us.

MATT: You guys, you're the mist!

MARISHA: (panicked yelling) Oh! It's just me!

TALIESIN: You're literally just scared of your hands.

MARISHA: (relieved) Oh!

TRAVIS: What did–

SAM: Nothing happened here. How was your trip?

TRAVIS: Yeah, boring here.

LAURA: Totally boring?

TRAVIS: Yep. No action.

LAURA: You know, not a lot to see there. There's a lot of goliaths and a lot of other bad guys walking around, oppressing very nice-looking people.

TRAVIS: A lot of goliaths?

MARISHA: They've made really poky fences everywhere.

TRAVIS: That's what I'd do.

LAURA: It looks like if we barged in, straight in, they'd probably have very good fortifications.

TRAVIS: Right.

MARISHA: I also think they're trying to be scary.

TRAVIS: Trying to be scary?

MARISHA: Not that you're not scary all the time, Grog. I just think they're like, ooh.

LAURA: They really want to look scary.

MARISHA: They really want to look tough, yeah.

LAURA: So, here's the thing. Do we barge in, totally risk our lives? Or try to find a way around this situation?

SAM: There's a central stronghold of some sort?

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: Is it a fortress?

LAURA: It's where the mayor lived before.

SAM: It's a house?

LAURA: Yeah, it's like a big house.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: It's a nice house.

SAM: And if we were to make our way into it, somehow, what would our mission be?

LIAM: Well, let's put on the table what we're doing here. Right? Kevdak has the Knuckles. We don't know where he is. He's probably pretty formidable on his own. And in a day or two, a dragon is going to be swinging by, so it's not one problem, it's a very large problem and a massive problem.

TRAVIS: Agreed.

LAURA: I wonder if Kevdak goes to the sacrificial area where they leave the hoard for the dragon.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't.

MARISHA: Or if he does rounds to check in on people.

TALIESIN: I'll also say I think it's more than likely that, in the end, I doubt the dragons would care who is filling the sacrificial plate.

LAURA: As long as someone is.

TALIESIN: As long as the plate's full.

TRAVIS: As far as this city goes, correct me if I'm wrong, but we have two options. Either we stealth in with the stealthy people, not me included, and we try and pickpocket Kevdak for the Knuckles. Or I challenge Kevdak for the Knuckles.

MARISHA: Is Kevdak known to ever wander off by himself? Does he take interest in his subjects to where we could corner him alone?

LAURA: Or is it a walk in and try to challenge him?

SAM: We could take out that guard, what was his name, Cole or something?

TRAVIS: Yeah, Cole was heading back to the city, though.

SAM: Well, we could find one of your goliath friends, hold them hostage, and draw out Kevdak that way.

TRAVIS: They won't care about a hostage.

MARISHA: There also could be the issue of are they going to go looking for Horace?

TRAVIS: Maybe. Not that hard, though.

SAM: We could do some sort of a diversion, set a fire or something that would draw them out. Or set a fire to the house they live in.

MARISHA: That's not a bad idea. What would bring Kevdak out?

TALIESIN: Grog. Grog would bring Kevdak out.

MARISHA: Grog?

SAM: Do you want to march in there, solo, while we stealth–

LAURA: No!

SAM: No, no, while we all stealth around in the rooftops watching, ready to act.

LIAM: Grog, I'm curious how tied you feel to the ways of your people now, or if you do. Do you feel the need, yourself, to face him on your own, or would you be amenable, would you be friendly to the idea of my sister and I softening him up for a moment, and then letting you have at it? What do you want to do here?

TRAVIS: So my fear is this: that if it's anyone but me and him, everyone gets involved. Not just us, but all 60 of them in that stronghold. I don't think we walk out of that very well. I'm not opposed to facing him head-on and seeing what fate has in store for me while you free any prisoners that might be around, or ransacking his house for any fun bits, but I think he's going to have the Knuckles on him.

MARISHA: Question. Is your herd and Kevdak the type where, if you start getting the upper hand in this fight, will the herd move to protect Kevdak?

TRAVIS: No.

MARISHA: So they'll honor a one-on-one fight? They'll honor that? They won't pull a fast one and swarm in when he's on his last leg?

SAM: Tell us this. If we walk in with you into town, is that not good? Should you walk into town alone and we lurk in the shadows?

MARISHA: Do you want to be on a hilltop, like standing on a hilltop? Because we could arrange that.

TRAVIS: I would need to think about it. Regardless, I think now is not the time. Perhaps we go look for Osysa's mate.

SAM: You don't want to do this now? It seems like now or never!

MARISHA: We know where Kevdak is, he doesn't seem to be going anywhere.

SAM: We may not know where he is after this.

TRAVIS: He seems pretty fortified. And we don't have Pike. And this is her hometown.

MARISHA: Judging by the– no, I didn't hear any of that.

LIAM: I want to throw something in here as well. And I don't know what to do in this situation, I'm looking to you all for guidance. But I do know two things. One is that I don't want you to fall, Grog. We need you. And I do not want you to fall to Kevdak. And second: if you do fall, I'm not willing to walk away without those Knuckles, not for me to use, but for us to use. We need those Knuckles. So if you are to fall at his hand, which I do not want, I don't know that I can honorably walk away.

TRAVIS: Well, yeah, speaking from a selfish position, if I fall, you can really do whatever the fuck you want. I think honor is bupkis at that point. So I don't mind what you do after that.

LAURA: You're not going to fall, Grog.

TRAVIS: No, no, no.

LIAM: My first point, Grog, I need you, we all do.

TRAVIS: That's very sweet. Uh. Emotion. I would like it if Pike was here.

TALIESIN: We know.

LAURA: We wait.

MARISHA: Look, could we hear Horace when he was interrogating him?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Judging by the way Horace was speaking, it sounds like they're pretty settled in for right now.

TRAVIS: They're not nomadic any more.

LIAM: Sitting pretty.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they ain't going anywhere.

MARISHA: So we know where he is now. It'll give us a little bit more time to formulate our plan? This is your fight, Grog, we'll follow you in this one.

LAURA: You want to go in there with Pike?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Let's wait for Pike.

LAURA: We wait for Pike. We wait until Gilmore's up and standing and we bring Pike here with us.

MARISHA: Pike might even be an emotional trigger.

LAURA: For what?

MARISHA: The herd if they see her, maybe.

LAURA: They never met her.

MARISHA: That's true. They probably don't give any shits.

TRAVIS: Let's just do this. Let's go after Osysa's mate. If we don't learn or find anything incredibly valuable, we're at the same place we are now.

MARISHA: Good point.

TRAVIS: And then we can kick the tires.

SAM: Do we still have mist possibilities?

MARISHA: We do, we can float on.

LAURA: Is Reginald still around?

MATT: You notice that Reginald's sitting there, clutching his full stachel.

LAURA: Hi, Reggie!

MATT: “Hi!”

LAURA: So we're going to help you.

MATT: “Right.”

TALIESIN: We're going to go get some reinforcements.

LAURA: You might have to wait a little while.

MATT: “That's okay, but you're coming back, right?”

LAURA: We most definitely are. Spread the word that hope is alive. We will find a way to beat this.

MATT: “All right. I'll be careful. You be careful, too. Come back as soon as you think you can, when you're ready.”

LAURA: Don't tell anyone what you saw here, though, right?

MATT: “Good luck.”

MARISHA: If anyone asks where Horace is, what happened to Horace?

MATT: “I haven't seen him for days.”

LAURA: That's a good answer.

MATT: Spits on the pile where his corpse is. “All right. Hope to see you soon, then.” He turns around and begins walking back.

MARISHA: Reginald.

MATT: You guys all take a moment, collect yourselves, revert back to your mist form, coast out of the farmland, heading southward in the direction of the Frostweald. And there, we're going to finish our campaign for the evening.

MARISHA: Ooh, shit!

LAURA: Man, Grog!

MARISHA: Grog!

TALIESIN: Feeling the pressure now? Feel it?

LIAM: Grog showing restraint and caution!

LAURA: I like it! I want Pike here, too.

LIAM: Yeah, so do I.

TRAVIS: It's too big for Grog.

SAM: Could have taken them.

LAURA: You could totally have taken them.

TRAVIS: Could have. But it's where Pike and her family raised Grog.

LAURA: Seems appropriate.

TRAVIS: Her schedule's so busy, but if we can get her next week…

TALIESIN: Well, next week we do the sphinx, and then the week after.

MATT: We'll figure it out. We'll get her back sometime soon, right?

TRAVIS: We do.

LIAM: If it takes 17 episodes, we will.

MARISHA: You're in New York. Can you stuff her in your suitcase while you're there, bring her back?

LAURA: Good call!

MARISHA: Just commandeer her, she's tiny!

LAURA: She's little!

MARISHA: She might be a little loud.

LIAM: Skype is rough, guys, it makes me feel bad for Pike.

MATT: We'll have you back soon, buddy.

LIAM: I'm fine.

MATT: No, you're not! You need to be here!

LIAM: (fake crying)

MATT: I know. Hopefully we'll be having Ashley back when Blindspot releases her between seasons, we'll have her back for a few months.

MARISHA: Season break!

MATT: Whenever that happens soon. We'll see you guys back here next week for the next length of the journey of Vox Machina. Until then, is it Thursday yet? See you guys soon. 

Part I

MATT: Now, we bring it back. I will ask if we could turn that speaker down a little bit. A little bit more. That's good. Great. All right, guys. Let's plug in to the world of Exandria, as we begin tonight's episode of Critical Role. So, last we left off, the adventuring party of Vox Machina, traversing the lands in search of lost artifacts of wars of old, referred to as the Vestiges of Divergence, in hopes of eventually tearing down and defeating a conclave of chromatic dragons called the Chroma Conclave that have destroyed society all across the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond, you returned to the outskirts of a city named Westruun that was very important in your early adventures, to find it, from a distance, partially destroyed by the dragon attack but a couple weeks before, and since taken over by what seems to be the remnants, now swelling in power and size, of Grog's old herd of wandering barbarians and various savages. Having taken the city by force and ruling it with an iron hand, it was also deemed not the right time to face this foe, and as such the party continued venturing southward in the direction of the Frostweald, where somewhere at the base of the Stormpeak Mountains, the mate of Osysa, the gynosphinx you had met in Vasselheim– her mate resides somewhere in this vicinity. That's all the information you have to go on as you head down towards the frozen forest. So. That's where we begin. As you guys continue pushing south from Westruun, seeing the distant pillars of dark smoke that slowly drift into the atmosphere disappear as the town itself vanishes over the horizon, you continue to push southward through the open grass fields. You continue traveling for the better part of a day, eventually coming up along the side of the Silvercut Channel, which is the river that comes down and cuts through near Kraghammer to the west of Westruun. It goes past Kymal and then eventually heads down in this direction, towards the Foramere Basin. You guys, travelling fairly quickly, as you're in your mist forms, which is making up a lot of the normal travel time you would have to worry about here, by the time the sun finally begins to set across the mountains– pay attention, please.

SAM: Yes!

MATT: Sorry.

LIAM: It's another beholder!

MATT: I've got plenty of things I could throw in here if you guys aren't paying attention!

TALIESIN: That's not funny.

MATT: No, it's really funny for me. As you guys continue pushing southward, as the sun slowly begins to set in the distance, you glance over towards the Foramere Basin. You can see, just over to the right, the city of Kymal, which has lights glimmering in the far distance. But what you see by the basin itself is this large lake that is centered in this region just north of the Frostweald. You can see where the two main rivers diverge before heading southward towards the ocean. There's a smattering of various tents that are clustered right towards the side of the riverbank and the edge of the lake itself. As you continue coasting overhead in your mist forms, you see small trails of smoke from smoldering campfires, clusters of people and families wandering the shore in this small group. You continue going forward?

SAM: I mean, we should check it out.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You don't have to, you can keep going.

SAM: It's a tent city?

MATT: It looks like it, yeah.

LAURA: They're refugees, probably.

SAM: Hundreds, thousands?

MATT: There's probably a few dozen, close to maybe 50, 60.

MARISHA: What do the tents look like? Do they look like military encampment tents, or refugee tents?

MATT: You can't really tell from this distance, especially as the light is beginning to slowly diminish.

TRAVIS: Can we float closer?

LAURA: We float down, we float down.

SAM: Oh, are we still mists?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Oh my God.

TRAVIS: That whole description, and yes, we're still mists.

MATT: As you coast down closer, you get a better look, and yeah, there are about 50, 60 or so people on the outside. You don't have an idea of how many are inside the tents. Even more, most likely. But these tents are fairly ramshackle, barely standing, the people look destitute. They look like they're holding onto survival here on the outside of the city. You see a few boats that are going in and out on the shore, probably fishermen. There are a few bonfires that are now starting to kick up as the night's cold begins to swell in. It looks like this is a fairly “thriving,” a fairly functional refugee camp.

TRAVIS: Well, those that give a fuck, speak up.

LAURA: We can't, we're in mist form.

TRAVIS: Then like (hissing) in a direction.

LAURA: (hissing) I think we should help them. Maybe we can –

TALIESIN: (buzzing fart sound)

SAM: Good point.

LAURA: Maybe we can send them back to Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Maybe, if we could talk, which we can't right now.

LAURA: I float down. Into the trees, outside of the camp.

TALIESIN: I follow.

MATT: Okay. These are open grasslands, there aren't a lot of trees, and they're spotted around. There are a few rock formations and small hills, you might be able to get out of sight.

LAURA: Around there.

MATT: So you coast around there and you go back into your physical form. The rest of you follow?

TRAVIS: Tall grass? Low grass?

MATT: It's probably thigh-length.

LIAM: Following.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we go.

MATT: For you, close to the knee.

LAURA: Near the rocks, so that we're in camouflage.

MATT: So you guys set down maybe 300 feet from the outside of the nearest part of the camp, reconstitute into your physical forms. At this point, the sun has now disappeared over the horizon and the blues have now gone to orange, to purple, and you can see in the distance the darkness of night is starting to crest over the sky. What do you want to do?

TRAVIS: What are we stopped for? Are we here?

LAURA: No, it looks like a refugee camp, Grog.

TALIESIN: They may have information.

LAURA: People that escaped from Westruun, potentially.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

LAURA: Yeah. I mean, it's a large group of people, I'm assuming they came from a city of some sort.

TRAVIS: Hey, Scanlan.

SAM: Oi.

TRAVIS: If we go over there and it gets a little hairy, you've still got old magic door, right?

SAM: Old magic doll?

TRAVIS: Hugh Hefner house!

SAM: Oh, yeah, magic door. Yes.

TRAVIS: Magic doll if you have it, too, for later, but yeah.

SAM: I mean, I have a little Pike figurine that I keep with me.

TALIESIN: Oh.

SAM: What, no, it's a keepsake!

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm sure it is.

SAM: Why is everything I say creepy?

LIAM: I don't know, why is it?

LAURA: Maybe we should pop them back to Whitestone. I feel like it might be good, if we find out if they're hurting. That's where we're putting our survivors.

LIAM: They look like they're hurting.

MARISHA: I couldn't help with that today.

LAURA: Oh. We could rest overnight, and you could pop them in in the morning?

MARISHA: What time is it?

LIAM: It's late. Sun's gone down.

TRAVIS: Super late. Yeah, and if they're from Westruun–

LAURA: Are you out of all your– oh, mist form.

MARISHA: Mist form got us here.

TALIESIN: It's worth talking to them at the very least.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Pike and I are from Westruun. If they're of that village, or that city, I'd like to make sure they're all right.

MARISHA: Maybe they're friends.

LAURA: Maybe we'd find Pike's grandfather.

TRAVIS: Grandfather Wilhelm.

LAURA: Percy, would Whitestone be able to sustain this many more people?

TALIESIN: I think at some point we're going to have to have that conversation, but for now I think we'll probably be all right.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: You're good for it. You're rich.

TALIESIN: For now.

LIAM: Here's an idea. Scanlan, you said that a lot of people can go into your house, yeah?

SAM: I can fit many people into my hole.

LIAM: Could you– (laughs)

MARISHA: I wonder why everything he says is creepy.

LIAM: Could you invite the folk in, and then they live in your hole for a little while, and then when we get to Whitestone, you open your hole and out they come?

SAM: No, not quite.

MARISHA: That's some cartel shit right there.

TRAVIS: Yeah. We become “Vox Machina: Coyotes.”

LIAM: Scanlan is the mule.

SAM: No, the house is mainly for us and a few guests, for one night at a time.

LAURA: You can't, like, leave them there.

LIAM: Didn't you say 100 people, the other day?

SAM: 100 servants are in there. I don't quite– I haven't jammed people in there. I don't know how many it can totally hold.

MARISHA: You mean, you've never thrown a party?

MATT: Go ahead and roll an intelligence check

SAM: First roll of the night: Natural 20!

(cheering)

SAM: Wasted it on an intelligence check.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Smile upon us, dice gods!

MATT: Though the magic is new to you, you've spent in your first time casting it and a large part of the evening, especially since you realized you weren't going to have as fun a night as you thought, after the broom had been taken and Vex left your room, learning the intricacies of the spell itself and the pocket dimension that is created. You can fit quite a few people in there. However, it is stationary in its entrance and exit and then once the spell comes to completion after a 24-hour period, it expels anyone and anything that was brought into it, on the spot where it was originally cast.

LIAM: I see.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Like gently, or like–

SAM: Like a flush.

TRAVIS: Like (sweetly) “Please leave.” or like (angry) “Get the fuck out!”

LIAM: Is that a yes or a no?

SAM: It's not a transporting-type spell. It is a temporary shelter, at best.

LIAM: You just don't want to bring them in.

SAM: I have a cold, cold heart.

(laughter)

SAM: Listen, I'll consider taking the females in.

TRAVIS: That is very noble of you.

LAURA: So noble, Scanlan.

TRAVIS: I will join him in this charity.

LAURA: Oh, yes.

MARISHA: Well, all right, why don't we just walk around and talk to these people? Maybe they're not even interested in being transported. Let's just find some citizens around.

LAURA: Should we make sure they're actually innocent, nice people?

MARISHA: We should probably do that as well, not like a band of thieves. Bandits.

LAURA: Stealth ahead.

TRAVIS: That could be fun.

LAURA: Can I sneak ahead and just listen to them?

SAM: Yes, sneaking up on them will definitely put them on our side.

LAURA: Hey, like 100 yards out. I just want to hear what they're saying.

SAM: All right, all right.

LIAM: She can read lips so she doesn't even get that close.

LAURA: It's pretty dark, though. But I do have good darkvision.

MATT: This is true. As the night takes over, it's still quite a distance to be able to make out a lot of detail. You'd probably have to get closer. But you're going alone?

TRAVIS: No, twins.

MATT: Twins going together?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Why don't you both roll a stealth check?

LIAM: Oh, I guess I'm going then.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping an eye also, to see if anything– From a great distance, I'm just keeping an eye out.

LAURA: We're in the woods, right?

MATT: No. You are in the plains.

SAM: There are no woods, tall grasses

LAURA: Just kidding, we're in the grasslands.

LIAM: Grass, grass. 32.

TRAVIS: I'll roll this big bastard.

TALIESIN: White manna, not green manna.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I'm hiding in a tree.

MATT: There's no– (annoyed hmm)

LAURA: There's no–

(laughter)

TRAVIS: “There's no (grumbles)”

SAM: The grass to me is like a tree

MATT: This is true, actually. It's more of a rose bush. So as you guys push forward, pushing and stalking through the grass, you come to about 40, 50 feet outside. And there's a little bit of chatter, it's hard to make out at this distance but the people seem to, not necessarily be jovial. Almost like they've accepted the circumstances and are just surviving it for the time being. There are a few individuals that are armed, though the armor itself seems patchwork, or you know, not the best or most trained of individuals currently guarding this group of survivors. But there are patrols going around, people keeping a close look, there are torches being lit now as people begin walking–

LAURA: Do we see anyone that we recognize from Westruun?

MATT: Not from this distance.

LAURA: No.

MATT: With your darkvision you can make out the outline of the very, very nearest individuals, the guards in particular. But at this distance, nobody catches your eye that you'd be able to make out much detail on, that you would recognize.

LIAM: Can we just sit for five or ten minutes?

LAURA: Well, the guards are coming through with torches, I don't want them to find us and think we're spies.

LIAM: But we are.

LAURA: Yeah, but I don't want them to think that.

LIAM: But we are.

LAURA: Yeah. I think you can stay 'cause you're more hidden than I am. I'm going to go back to the group.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: I feel like they're going to see me.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: (chuckling) You don't know that. As far as you know, you're so hidden.

LAURA: “I'm so hidden.” Shit.

TRAVIS: Come on.

LAURA: All right, all right, all right. Just a second.

LIAM: I'm just going to stay here for a couple of minutes longer. Wait, you said they were coming our direction or they're just– ?

MATT: No, they're just wandering. Just patrolling

LAURA: Oh all right.

LIAM: You're paranoid!

LAURA: Okay, fine fine fine fine.

LIAM: Let me listen for a bit.

MATT: Okay. I'll have you both roll perception checks, if you could.

LIAM: All right. 22.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Okay. You two, at about the same time, focus best you can. You have to scoot a little bit closer once the guard that's nearest to you passes by. You wait for your moment, scoot up close, get by one of the tents, and look off to the side. There are a few folks that catch your attention a little bit. There's one that was Elowen Brist, who was the mother of the first child that went missing in Westruun. You see her, with her daughter who's a little bit older now that you guys helped save her.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LIAM: All these throwbacks are blowing my mind.

MATT: A little dirty but alive. They wander off. You scan through the crowd, keeping an eye out for the guard as well. No one really catches your attention. You see one older gentleman that walks by, 60s, not completely withered away. But, you know, older but carries himself with much importance. Very expensive clothing, reds and blues. It seems like he's attempting to hold a social station, even though in his current location, society has crumbled. He doesn't really catch your attention as anyone you recognize, but the person to the left of him is a very familiar-looking elven man, with long brown hair slicked over and behind his ears. This is Drez Vina, who originally contacted you when you arrived in Westruun.

LAURA: Holy– (whispers) That's Drez Vina!

LIAM: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: He's looking a little rough, too. This has not been the kindest time to any of these people.

LAURA: Well, should we go back to the group or tell them to come on in?

LIAM: Do we have to go back to tell them to come on in?

LAURA: We have earrings.

LIAM: Well, yeah, that's true

LAURA: (whispering) Hey, you guys.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: What, what what what what?

LAURA: You guys! Hey Percy, pay attention.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, yes. Hello. What?

LAURA: Hey, guess who I'm looking at right now?

TALIESIN: Your brother.

LAURA: Well–

SAM: God, you're so good at that.

LAURA: Drez fucking Vina

MARISHA: (gasps) Drez!

SAM: Wait, remind us, who– ?

LAURA: Drez Vina was that dude that sent us on our very first mission together, you guys.

TALIESIN: Ooh.

MARISHA: Yeah! He protected us, he's a magic user.

SAM: Oh. I was mostly drunk that time.

LAURA: Yeah, Percy you weren't there yet.

TALIESIN: Oh, at the Winter's Crest festival, I remember.

MATT: (laughing) That's not him at all.

LIAM: No. He was– Drez Vina.

TRAVIS: “That's not it at all.” (chuckles)

LAURA: Percy, you weren't there–

MATT: That's Abjurist Noja.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: (in unison) Oh. Abjurist Noja.

LIAM: Drez Vina was the dick. Drez Vina's a dick.

LAURA: Drez Vina's the guy. Drez Vina was the asshole.

SAM: Doesn't he work for someone else?

MATT: He had a Master.

MARISHA: Wait, was he the guy that we stole from, kind of?

LAURA: Hey, keep it down. I don't know who all can hear over these earrings!

TRAVIS: Oh, did he have the tower with the magical items?

MATT: Here, I should step in here and clarify–

(laughter)

MARISHA: It's been like three years.

LIAM: This was only three years ago.

MATT: No, I know. Drez Vina came to you under the pretense that he was working for an individual called the Master, he called him his Master, who was interested in hiring your services. Originally sent you into the mage tower of Eskil Ryndarien, the Realmseer, to steal the brass box with the pearl top. However, you did not steal it and instead you ended up befriending the Archmage.

TRAVIS: He let us pick something.

MATT: Yes, he let you pick something from his array of items.

SAM: That's right!

MATT: Drez then found you guys at your inn, a number of weeks later. And Drez was very unhappy that you both didn't return with the item, and used a very powerful and expensive object that was part of this endeavor, and never paid it back. So, to pay back your debt, he sent you guys to the Druid Barrow where you had to retrieve this cortex, this magical gem that was embedded in the center of–

MARISHA: And that was where we fought the golem!

MATT: Yep. Where you fought the golem. And you retrieved the cortex successfully, and that's the last you've seen of him.

LAURA: See? He likes us now! We totally helped him.

SAM: But he has magical items–

LAURA: Well, maybe not anymore.

SAM: Had. Well, we should–

LIAM: What was, DM, can you remind me the name of the mother that we spoke to all that time ago?

LAURA: The one you just mentioned.

MATT: Elowen.

LIAM: Elowen? Elowen. I'd rather go talk to her.

MATT: I'm pretty sure, let me check my notes. Yeah, Elowen. Elowen Brist.

LAURA: Do you guys want to just come on in?

SAM: Yes, let's go in.

TALIESIN: I don't see what the harm is.

TRAVIS: We go in.

LAURA: Make a nice, pleasant chattering– maybe you should sing, Scanlan, as you approach so that people know we're nice

SAM: I would love to sing. Oh. Right now? (singing) Sunny days, chasing the dragons away, On our way to where the air is clean, Can you tell me how to kill, How to kill some drag-eens?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a performance check.

SAM: Performance check.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: What is it? What is it?

SAM: It fell off the table. And it is– a six. But plus 13.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Wait– plus 14.

MATT: Plus 14? Okay. Okay, so, as you guys begin strolling up, immediately you see torches (fire sounds).

LIAM: Hands up. No weapons.

MATT: You see guards come forward, two of them with nocked crossbows. “Who goes there?

LAURA: Hey, you guys!

MATT: And they don't really recognize– they're all looking at this source of singing. Crossbows–

SAM: (singing) It's a magic carpet ride. Except we burned our magic carpet so we can't–

(laughter)

MATT: The guards slowly drop their crossbows. “What's your business?”

TRAVIS: Hey, hey, that's not necessary. We're friends.

MATT: “We've already got enough mouths to feed. Move along.”

TRAVIS: No, we're not looking for food. We're here to provide aid if we can, if it's in need, if people need our help.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

SAM: Persuasion? You?

LAURA: Grog–

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: While their crossbows are notched, they haven't lowered them completely, they're still on guard and still nervous of your approach.

LIAM: We also think there's a woman with you named Elowen. She knows us. We'd like to speak to her. We'll wait here.

MATT: One of them glances over at the other one. One of the guards who was paying attention walks away and they all raise their crossbows again and just train them on you guys for the next few minutes.

TRAVIS: I mean, it's really not necessary. Even if you were to loose those, it would just be a tickle. I mean, trust me, we come from Westruun, all right?

LAURA: Don't you remember us? In Westruun?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Winter's Crest festival?

LAURA: Vox Machina?

TRAVIS: Grog? Pike? Wilhelm?

MATT: One of the guards takes a moment and gives you an eye and just goes– “I remember seeing you around town. You were– Oh man, jeez, it's good to see you.”

TRAVIS: Right? I'm as psyched about all this–

MATT: “Sorry if I gave you any trouble back in the day. I was young and stupid.”

SAM: Why don't you all lower your crossbows, for a second?

MATT: “I mean no offense, but we're very guarded with your kind at the moment.”

TRAVIS: (inhales) Right. Yeah, yeah, understandable. Right. We just actually came from Westruun. It seems to be a bit occupied at the moment.

MARISHA: And he's with us. So– He's not with them.

LAURA: He's different than the other guys, see? He's got a beard.

TRAVIS: No, I, listen. It came about my own. I just got the genetics for it. (stage-whispers) Would you shut up?

MATT: At which point the guard that had left comes back with Elowen. She walks up with her tightly braided reddish hair with a little bit of grey on the sides, that probably has come since the last time you've seen her and the experience of having her child gone so long. It's taken a physical toll on her. But there is a smile on her face. Now she looks over and focuses her eyes–

LIAM: Elowen!

MATT: “That's them! That's them! Let them in, let them in.” And she runs forward immediately and gives a big hug to you, Vex.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: And starts moving through, and, you know, just this big smile and surprise. And you can see her little boy Simon come up to the side.

ALL: Oh! Simon!

MATT: Simon, who last time you saw, you were retrieving him from the pocket dimension that the Dread Emperor had called his domain. At which point, there's a few quick pleasantries, as she says hello again. She says: “Please, please come in. Please. It's fine. They're trustworthy.” And the guards nod. And they follow behind, not in an aggressive way but just in a being-careful kind of way. So you have two people, two armed individuals flanking you the entire walk that you guys are doing, but it's at ease.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes up to Simon.

MATT: “Hi!”

MARISHA: How old are you now?

MATT: “This many– ” He puts up nine fingers.

MARISHA: You've grown up so well.

MATT: “Thank you.”

MARISHA: And I just give him a big hug.

MATT: He freezes up. He's gotten a little shy at the interaction.

LIAM: I kneel down next to him and I say: do you want to see something cool? Look at this. And I take off the serpent belt. And– (snake hisses)

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

LIAM: And I put him around my neck. I named him after you.

(laughter)

MATT: “Really?”

LIAM: He's my pet. Do you want to, he's gentle as a lamb. Do you want to tickle his neck?

MATT: “Yes.”

(laughter)

LIAM: Yeah. Here, you hold him. I set it down around his neck. Don't worry. Nothing's going to happen. It's fine.

MATT: He locks up again. Snakes and women have the same reaction to this poor little boy.

LIAM: Simon, fart in his ear. Go ahead and fart in his ear.

MATT: He gives you a stern look. And the snake just wraps around him for a second.

MARISHA: Keyleth does a little wind gust and goes (poof).

MATT: He goes (giggles) and starts laughing. Reaches up and rubs his ear from the tickle.

LIAM: It's good to see you again, kiddo. Come here, Simon Jr. I'll put him back, now.

MATT: He has a big smile on his face now. “That's so cool.”

LAURA: While that was happening, I pulled aside his mother. Is this everyone that made it out of Westruun?

MATT: (sighs) “Well, we're one group. Many went to Kymal, but they're at capacity now, and based on many of the farming fields that were destroyed or burned by the dragon ransacking, there's only so much food to go around, so they had to turn us away. But there were some small farming communities along the river that were kind enough to take us in and we're… we're getting by.”

LAURA: But you're searching for a home?

MATT: “Hoping to find out if anything takes care of the problems in Westruun. You should probably talk to Cornelius. I don't know the details of everything happening.”

LAURA: Cornelius. Is he the man I saw in the finer robes?

MATT: “No, no. Cornelius is rather– he's not very well-dressed. He–” And she scratches her head. “He used to be the bookbinder in Westruun but when everything fell apart, he rose up and took the lead in keeping everyone safe and so, I mean, he won't say it, but we kind of look to him as a leader for now.”

LAURA: Did he work in the Cobalt Reserve?

MATT: “I think he did business with them, but I don't think he worked directly with.”

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: “Here. Let me take you.”

LAURA: Oh, wonderful.

MATT: She walks over and, as you guys are talking to Simon, she scoops Simon up and pulls him to her side and gives you guys a smile of acknowledgement. “Come,” and leads you guys–

LAURA: We're meeting Cornelius.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: (softly) Who's Cornelius?

LAURA: He's a bookbinder.

TRAVIS: Never heard of him.

MATT: You guys are led through. Most of the folks stop what they're doing and pay attention. Some look wary and guarded. Others, you see their faces brighten up as they begin to connect the dots between the whispers they've heard of Vox Machina throughout the landscape and the individuals walking through. Most everyone seems to have a somewhat visceral emotional reaction once Grog passes by. It does catch you. You know, as a person who has always stuck out against the society as it was, and you've worked hard to a degree to get some respect, especially in that city. Having so many eyes on you, and you can feel the, while unearned from your standpoint, the heaps of hatred that are thrust upon you by how you look right now is uncomfortable. Eventually, the guards and Elowen bring you guys up to a central tent around what looks like a larger bonfire in the center where a lot of people are starting to bring their big nets of fish over and starting to divvy it out and set up small cooking arrangements so that people for the evening can have their dinner. She walks up to the edge of tent, speaks to one of the guards, mentions you guys and your wanting to talk to Cornelius. The guard leans in, shouts off to the side, “Cornelius, you've got some visitors. Is "that okay?” A voice muffles through, “That's fine. Go ahead and let them in.” The guard pulls open the tent, and at this point Elowen says, “I'm going to go get my son some food. If you need anything, just ask around.”

LIAM: We'll see you again.

MATT: “Thank you guys, again.” She rubs Simon's head and walks off. And as she walks off with him, he keeps looking over his shoulder at you the whole time, with a big smile on his face. You guys walk into the tent, and it smells like a tent that's been lived in for a couple weeks. The interior's not fancy by any means. It's blankets and burlap, and whatever functions to guard against the relatively muddy shores of the river. And you get a sense that most places here, just because of the landscape and how close it is to the river, mud is tracked everywhere. So it's mostly caked ground. There is a small cot on the far edge and there is a table set up and some elements of dried fish that are just being pulled from a sack on the side. And there are two guards, and you can see what appears to be Cornelius coming to greet you, as you enter. A man in his mid-40's, blondish hair with a scruffy, unkempt beard. You get the sense that he's a working man. His hands look calloused. He's got a layer of just dirt and grime across his brow that tells you he's definitely one who gets in the thick of it when it's needed. And you can see why in this circumstance people put trust into a person that can rise up amongst all the chaos from simple means and prove themselves to want to help everybody. And in the moment he smiles, you immediately see also why people follow him. He's got this bright, toothy, white smile, and he puts his hand out immediately to each of you. “Pleasure to meet you. I'm Cornelius.”

LAURA: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: “So, I'm told that you all are here to talk to me? What's this about?”

SAM: We know that you've been driven out of your homes by an attack of dragon or dragons. How many have menaced your city?

MATT: “Well, counts all say that we have upwards of three dragons that came through here and tore into this city and– They were gone for a while, and we'd hoped they weren't going to return, but that's when–” He kinda looks over to you, Grog. “That's when the savages came in and took what was left. And I mean no offense to that. I recognize you; I've seen you around the town before. You seem like you're not like your ilk.”

TRAVIS: No. No, I'm sorry, I don't know who you are.

MATT: “That's okay. No one really knows who I am and I want to keep it that way, when all this blows over.”

TRAVIS: Understandable.

MATT: “Don't like all the attention.”

TALIESIN: How long have you been nomadic for?

MATT: “We're going into our second week now, I think. We sent a few of our most able-bodied up north in hopes of trying to figure out if the city was safe to return to, and, well, only a few made it back, and those that did said it was a bloodbath.”

LAURA: It's quite dangerous there right now.

MATT: “Yeah.”

TRAVIS: How many do you have here, in your encampment with you?

MATT: “Let's see.” He kind of takes a moment to think and does couple marks on the dirt in front of him to do a count. You can see he's not a very numbers-guided person.

TRAVIS: I like him.

(laughter)

MATT: “I'd say we got probably about close to 60, 70 people left. We used to have more. Then we lost the scouting parties up north and, well, these past four days we've had a few of these orcish fuckers been raiding the outskirts of our camp every night and taking goods, people–”

MARISHA: What's your current destination?

MATT: “Hah, we got none. We're just staying here and staying alive.”

MARISHA: And what made you camp out here?

MATT: “Fish, mainly. I mean, all the farming grounds are destroyed or they're being guarded currently, and there's no space for us in Kymal. We can keep going east, but–”

TRAVIS: If I could be selfish for a moment. Have you seen Wilhand? Pike, Pike Trickfoot. Her grandfather.

LAURA: A small, older gnome?

MATT: “We got a few older gnomes from the city. I don't think we have any among us though, no.”

TRAVIS: Fine. Thought I'd ask.

LIAM: If we could help you relocate quite a ways away, would you be open to that?

MATT: “How do you mean?”

LAURA: There's a city. A lot of the refugees from other cities that have been destroyed by the dragons are finding their way there and–

MARISHA: Percy actually has family who's in charge there.

LAURA: We could give you safe passage.

TALIESIN: Possibly find you someplace to work.

LAURA: Very quick, safe passage.

MARISHA: Can they account for 70 extra people in Whitestone?

TALIESIN: We lost a lot during the attack with the Briarwoods.

MARISHA: Right.

TALIESIN: There's room, but there's only– We can maybe make room for a few more.

LAURA: There's farmland, there are some empty buildings.

MATT: “I appreciate the offer, and–”

MARISHA: It hasn't been touched by dragons yet.

MATT: “Hah. 'Yet.'”

MARISHA: Yet.

MATT: “I tell you what. We greatly appreciate the offer, and we're liable to take you up on that at some point in the near future. But right now, we have too many of our people that are unaccounted for to the south. We got a couple scouting groups who're trying to find out where these orcs are, where they've taken them. See if we can retrieve our own before we go ahead and find a new place to live.”

SAM: How many are missing right now?

MATT: “Well, we lost 11 in the last few nights of exchange, to blade, and we've lost about nine to the actual bands themselves, so. There's nine unaccounted for. We're hoping–”

SAM: If we found them, would you be more likely to take your people to somewhere safe?

MARISHA: And what is necessarily stopping you from at least sending a handful of women and children ahead? Families that don't need to be nomadic.

MATT: “Do you have the means to keep them safe for that kind of travel? That's a long way, up to Whitestone. We don't have the guards to keep them up on that.”

LAURA: We have very safe means of travel.

TALIESIN: A shortcut, one would say.

MARISHA: They'd be there in an instant.

MATT: “I don't know anything about any of that weird magic stuff, but you seem like a reliable group.”

LIAM: You can tell we're a motley bunch of assholes. We've seen shit and we've done shit and we can do shit.

MATT: “Ain't that the truth. Well–”

TALIESIN: We'd also like to talk to you, perhaps, to see if you've seen some shit. We're actually looking for something out here.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Are we?

TALIESIN: We are. Well, you've been traveling, we're looking for a creature who may have what we need to help defeat these dragons.

LAURA: Possibly a bit deeper into the Frostweald.

MATT: “Into the Frostweald?”

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: “That's where we're thinking our scouts are saying these orcs are holed up, anyway.”

LAURA: Really?

TALIESIN: That's useful.

MATT: “At least, that's where we've been sending our folk. And follow them out there. Only one group went in after them and they never came back, so–”

MARISHA: No one's returned who's come back?

MATT: “Oh, we've gotten one group that came back. That's how we know they're there. But they were just a scouting party. They got to the outskirts and came back.”

MARISHA: Can we speak to them?

MATT: “I think they're out right now, actually. Going to get more information. Sorry.”

TALIESIN: Well, that works out well, then. We can go up that direction, perhaps take care of this problem, possibly.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: It's on the way.

TRAVIS: I wouldn't mind a good stretch.

LAURA: Kill some orc.

TALIESIN: I could use some breathing.

MARISHA: Do you know your way around the Frostweald at all?

MATT: “Can't say I do. But I do have some stake in this personally, if you don't mind me asking. We don't have much to offer you, at all, really, other than my gratitude. Tell of a few friends of ours that've found their way wherever these savage creatures are stationed. One of the individuals that was taken in a raid two nights ago was my brother, Cyrus. Don't know if he's still amongst the living, but if you are indeed planning on taking a look at where these orcs are and bring folks back safe, if you could just keep an eye out for him?”

LIAM: Well, I'll tell you, in times like these, it will feel good to be able to do a bit of good.

TALIESIN: Hear, hear.

LAURA: What does your brother look like?

MATT: “He's about 15 years younger than me. Shaggy brown hair, bit of a puffy goatee. He looks like a lazy man. He is a lazy man, but I love him. If you're looking for someone who's hiding in the corner, shaking in their boots, it's probably him.”

LAURA: Understood.

TRAVIS: Check the corners.

MATT: “It's his defense mechanism.”

LAURA: (laughs) A very safe one.

MATT: “I hope.” His eyes go a little colder at that moment. “I hope.”

LAURA: Well, we've been to the Frostweald before. I'm not afraid to go in there again.

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I say we take the evening to rest, and first thing in the morning, head out.

LAURA: Would there be any injured members of your camp that would want to head out in the morning to Whitestone? Somebody that needs any medical attention?

MATT: “We've got plenty of folks who aren't feeling too well. Illness and disease, unfortunately, tend to go hand-in-hand with these type of nomadic lifestyles. We can probably– about seven or eight people that could use some relatively immediate attention. Couple survivors of the recent raids. If you can indeed do this, you might be saving some lives, here.”

MARISHA: Are we camping the rest of the night?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: That's wise.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we promise you no one will bother you tonight.

MARISHA: Question. Question. Can I do my Transport via Plants as a ritual cast to not burn a slot level?

MATT: Nope.

MARISHA: That's what I thought.

MATT: It would say it next to the spell. Ritual.

MARISHA: That's what I thought. Okay. Keyleth spends the rest of the evening burning up my remainder spell slots to do curing on those who need it.

MATT: Okay. You guys are given a relatively ramshackle tent in which you can sleep for the evening, cooked fish– that's about all they have to offer– with a few leftover potatoes that appear to have been recently either located amongst their remaining crates, you have no idea, but a passable meal is presented if you'd like, and a place that has cloth over your head.

TRAVIS: No, I don't need to sleep tonight. I'll be on the watch.

SAM: Boy.

(laughter)

LAURA: Should we scour the camp for her grandfather?

TALIESIN: I'm sleeping tonight. I don't know what's wrong with him.

LAURA: I know he said there were no gnomes, but–

TRAVIS: There's only 60 people. I feel like he'd know with 60.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: That's like this many, like–

LIAM: And it's not a lot of gnomes. I'm assuming it's a handful of gnomes.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Right. I just, I don't know. I wish Pike were here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

LIAM: Always wish Pike was here.

MATT: You do recall, last time you were in Whitestone, you left the other half of your gatestone with Pike.

TALIESIN: I'll write a letter.

MARISHA: We'll write a letter.

TALIESIN: I'll write a letter that will travel with them to Whitestone and–

SAM: Oh.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's a good idea.

LAURA: That's wonderful, and she can pop over.

TALIESIN: Mm-hm. Take about a minute.

TRAVIS: Really?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Wait, we'd have to send them tonight, though.

TALIESIN: No, in the morning.

LAURA: They could go in the morning and just go find her immediately.

MARISHA: Yeah, could task someone to find her immediately and then, as soon as she gets the message, she'll beam to us.

SAM: All right.

LIAM: I've still got the other one. Right here.

TRAVIS: Great. We take the night, then.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: I write a letter to my sister, letting her know that I do apologize that we're sending more people, but it's necessary, and I write her a letter insisting that Pike be sent here by stone immediately.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (singing) D-E-A-R C-A-S-S, how are you? I'm fine.

LAURA: What the fuck are you singing?

TALIESIN: (singing) Everybody else is too!

LIAM: Wow! You know what I'm doing!

TRAVIS: Holy shit, what the fuck just happened?

LAURA: What was that?

TALIESIN: You are a nerd!

LIAM: A theatre nerd, yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you are a theatre nerd.

LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: Secret Garden, ladies and gentlemen.

TALIESIN: Secret Garden: The Musical. It's magical.

LIAM: Can we have the break so Taliesin and I can go make out in the other room?

MATT: Don't go on break for that! Just move your seating arrangement.

TALIESIN: And suddenly the YouTube hits just go through the roof.

(laughter)

SAM: What injured people are going back? Have we met these people yet? Can we meet them?

MATT: You haven't met them, no.

LAURA: Let's go find the injured.

MATT: You guys are led with Keyleth as well. There are two armed guards that are hobbling their way through their patrols tonight as they've been wounded in the previous orc raid that happened the couple nights beforehand. There are a number of just relatively sick people. Couple of children. Whether it be having to eat whatever was around to stay alive but some of the food had spoiled in travel, or just catching disease as when you have clusters of people in cold environments, especially cold, wet environments like this tonight. It does tend to happen. Nothing seriously life-threatening, but, you know, definitely worrisome.

SAM: I try to find the one who's the most able-bodied. Right? We're going to need someone to go find Pike or deliver a message, right?

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: It's going to be whoever's organizing it.

SAM: Is someone going who's not injured to transport these people?

MATT: Possibly. And you can organize whoever you'd like. Someone you know, you could bring along.

MARISHA: Well, I start attending to the children first.

MATT: Okay. So you tend to the children, helping them feel comfortable, deal with any wounds, scrapes, relative inconveniences, and it's easy enough for you to take a moment to cure disease if need be.

LAURA: Can we find any families with children and maybe see if there's able bodies in there that we could send through?

MATT: Okay. Yeah, you manage to– and with Elowen and her son Simon as well–

LAURA: Yes. Maybe Elowen could go?

TALIESIN: Elowen would be perfect.

MARISHA: Well, remember, we were able to get about 25 or so people through last time with the spell.

LAURA: How many sick people are there?

MATT: You see about seven or eight people that could use it.

LAURA: Perfect.

MATT: So you can get a bunch of other folks through as well.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: I talk to Elowen and ask if she can go find Pike in the morning, if she wants to go through, and all that kind of stuff.

MATT: “I'd be happy to, I–”

SAM: You remember what Pike looks like?

MATT: “Yeah. About your size, lightish hair–”

SAM: Hair the color of the sunset, eyes like waves that crash in the night, breasts, supple, firm–

TRAVIS: Okay, Scanlan. Scanlan.

ASHLEY: True, true, true.

(laughter)

MATT: “Right. Yes, I remember. I'll find her, yes.”

SAM: Smell of morning dew as it touches–

MATT: She begins to cover Simon's ears.

(laughter)

MATT: “All right, I think we should turn in for the evening, but yes, I'll be happy to take care of it.”

LIAM: Also of note, you're going to be going through a tree.

MATT: “What?”

LIAM: Just go with it. You're going to be–

MARISHA: Well, you know, you didn't have to tell them that now. Could've just let it be a surprise.

LAURA: It's really fun, actually.

LIAM: It's kind of frightening, though, if you don't know it's coming.

LAURA: You'll pop right out in Whitestone. It's amazing.

LIAM: It's still a little weird for me, to be honest.

MARISHA: Is it? Okay, that's good to know.

MATT: “All right. All right.” So, as the evening comes to completion, you're taking guard for the course of the evening.

LAURA: I pop Trinket out and I sleep on him.

TRAVIS: Very attentive.

MATT: (bear sound) He curls up.

LAURA: Hugs and hugs.

MATT: Yeah. Warm, fuzzy. Trinket makes for a very good bed for one.

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: I'm going to curl into the butt end, which is all I get. All I ever got while we were traveling.

LAURA: Yeah. He farts on you all the time.

LIAM: I fart on him all the time.

MATT: It's just a fart exchange. Back and forth, forever.

LIAM: Bada-lang-lang-lang-lang-lang-lang-lang.

MATT: (laughs) That got weird. Did you want to do anything for the evening?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

SAM: Oh boy.

LIAM: Oh crud. Big two!

TRAVIS: Big watch, big watch. Nine!

LAURA: Ey-oh!

LIAM: Ey-oh! (exploding sounds)

MATT: Okay. All right. The evening goes by without a hitch.

(groans)

LAURA: What would you have seen? What would you have seen?

MATT: You all come to consciousness. You eventually get your rest as well for the evening.

MARISHA: What didn't you see? Tell me what you didn't see.

MATT: At this point, the tent city is back to a bustling sound of folks going about their business for the day, what kind of business that can be done. The people that you've requested be sent over to Whitestone have been gathered on the outside, the western side of this small city area, and some of the guards there are prepared to greet you in preparation for sending these people over.

SAM: Keyleth, before we do this, there are no trees here.

MARISHA: What? What do you mean? Are there trees here?

MATT: No. It's a plain. I mean, there are the occasional small tree, scattered in clusters around, but you're in the grasslands.

MARISHA: I thought we were on the edge of a forest.

SAM: There's no forest here.

MATT: The forest is south of you guys.

LAURA: We've got to walk them to the forest.

MARISHA: How fucking far are trees?

MATT: I'd say, probably–

SAM: Four days' journey.

MATT: No, from this area, it's most of a day's travel. There are trees closer, but the forest is that far.

MARISHA: I just need a tree to fit people through. I need a person-width tree.

SAM: A giant tree.

MATT: To find a tree large enough to do this is probably going to be about two hours' walking distance.

LAURA: Okay, we can walk for two hours.

MARISHA: That's a nice morning hike.

LAURA: You know what, I'm going to fly up. I'm going to (hacking spit) and fly up and find a fucking tree.

SAM: Oh, you're going to scout?

LAURA: I'm going to scout for a tree.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Why did you pick that as the word?

LAURA: I didn't think about it. I forgot.

TALIESIN: That was a great decision.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. You find, actually, hiding just around the bend of a series of small hills that butt up against the southwestern side of the Foramere Basin, there is a small cluster of trees, one of which is the largest of the group, that may function as a function of this that is only about a 30-minute walk from these.

MARISHA: That's doable. There we go.

LAURA: Fly back down and I tell them. I look along the path, though, and make sure it's safe, the walking back. Is it okay?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Hopefully nobody saw the comely half-elf flying through the bright blue sky.

LAURA: I wear turquoise to blend in with the blue surroundings.

MATT: You didn't blend in too well, as when you crested over, a number of the families and kids that were prepared were pointing up. “Mom, she's flying!” People were excited to see you take off into the distance. It was quite a display. Well done.

LAURA: I do some circles around and wave.

LIAM: Maybe you can join Dr. Dranzel in the circus.

LAURA: I hang off of it as I come down, like woo! And then come back up.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a dexterity check.

LAURA: Dexterity or acrobatics?

MATT: Dexterity.

LAURA: Damn it.

TRAVIS: Outstanding.

LAURA: I said as I come down. It was low. I was low.

MATT: So as Vex takes a moment to do some unique tricks with her elaborate and long-running experience directing brooms across the sky, she gets a bit cocky and does a “look, ma, no hands” moment. However, in doing so, the broom sputters out from under the grasp of her legs, and suddenly goes limp as it begins to fall almost as fast as you are, as you both begin to plummet.

LAURA: I grab for it! And (hacking spit) as I'm grabbing for it.

LIAM: You can't fight the power of the one.

MATT: Unfortunately, you don't have any momentum to go forward, and it's already coasted about 15, 20 feet away from you, and there's nowhere to swim. All the kids are like, “Yay!” Cheering, and all of a sudden you start falling, and they go (screaming). And starts yelling.

TALIESIN: Which child in the crowd is going to become Robin? I'm so excited.

MATT: I want you to go ahead and roll an acrobatics check.

TALIESIN: This is how we make a vigilante.

LAURA: Okay, okay. 25.

MATT: 25, okay. So you only suffer nine points of falling damage as you hit the ground and do a tumble, land arms out and catch the broom, smiling amongst the serious pain in your legs and back.

LAURA: I'll bet you thought I was really falling!

MATT: All the kids are like, “Yay!” And start cheering, clapping. Even the parents start clapping. The guards start clapping, like, “That was genuinely impressive.” Played it off.

TRAVIS: Blood trickles out of the ear from the brain trauma.

(laughter)

SAM: Does the broom just fall, or does it shoot off like a missile?

MATT: It shoots off for a second, carrying the momentum of the propulsion, and then it falls limp as it no longer has the immediate connection with the person. But she did catch it after she tumbled.

SAM: Oh, okay, that's cool.

TALIESIN: Working on it.

LAURA: I'm going to work on that trick, you guys, and it's going to be amazing.

TALIESIN: I think it's perfect.

LIAM: Blood for the blood gods.

MATT: All right. Finding the tree, you guys walk, and bringing the families and the children and the people that were chosen to go to Whitestone, Keyleth, you create your Transport via Plants spell. (whoosh) The doorway opens, and it barely fits onto this one half-dead willow that's cresting the side there. Everyone (gasps).

MARISHA: We form the line, the ranks.

LIAM: Climb through, climb through, you have to move quickly.

MARISHA: Go, go, go, go!

MATT: At the very end, Elowen's the last one through, and she's holding the letter and she looks back and says, “Promise,” and leaps through right as it closes in the tree. You look toward the guards that were with you guys, who are just watching this whole thing with their eyes wide open.

TRAVIS: Glad you let us in, aren't you?

MATT: “Yeah.”

MARISHA: I turn to him and I go, high five! Okay.

MATT: At this point, you see two figures walking towards you at this southern forest.

SAM: Two figures walking towards us?

MATT: Towards you guys, rather hastily.

SAM: I draw my whip.

MATT: Okay. Whip's out. You glance over and, easy enough to see, it is Drez Vina and this older individual, both rushing up. Drez has his hand up. “Excuse me, I'm sorry, pardon me!”

TALIESIN: Yes, hello? Hello?

MATT: “It has been some time, everyone. Pleasure to see you again.”

LAURA: We remember, dear.

MATT: “Wondrous, wondrous. I'm here with–” And as he gestures, the old man puts his hand in front and goes, “Would you please just let me talk for once? Hello. I am–” And he looks over. “Has he been giving you my– I am Master Quall. Pleasure to meet all of you.”

SAM: Quall?

MATT: “I was the collector that had hired you in previous times as Drez has recently made me aware, and while our track record has been spotty, you seem to be rather able-bodied, and whispers this morning that have come to my ears mention that you have interest in returning to Westruun. Is that correct?”

SAM: To set it free, yes.

MATT: “Wondrous, wondrous.” He looks over to Drez. Drez goes, “Yes, well, you see, the master here lives within Westruun, and– ” “I'm talking, I've got this. My abode, which is a relatively humble structure, two stories, bricks and dark wood, southeast of the town square, right by the fountain crossroads, I'm sure you've seen it before. Since this whole endeavor has happened, it has usurped a bit of progress in my experimentation, and I would be remiss if I didn't request your assistance in perhaps retrieving a very important piece of my collection so I might continue this research in this desolate place.”

LIAM: What are the subjects of your experimentation?

MATT: “Various things. I enjoy finding out the base elements of existence and life.”

LAURA: Insight check.

MATT: Insight check.

LAURA: He's lying. 18.

MATT: 18.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

TRAVIS: Whispers!

SAM: Dagger Dagger Dagger is one of the shirts that's available. There's Strongjaw Ale. Strongjaw Ale available for sale. Check it out. Geek and Sundry.

TALIESIN: That's very interesting. Did you know that I'm a collector as well, actually?

MATT: “Really? Oh, quaint.”

TALIESIN: Of specifics.

MATT: “Of what?”

TALIESIN: Specifics. I see that you have not really handed any over.

MATT: “It may be a bit beyond your understanding.”

LAURA: Very few things are beyond his understanding.

MATT: “Very well. I appreciate the synergies between various elements and the ability to link the essence with that of a living organic entity, or the transition of such living essence into what is normally non-living matter.”

MARISHA: So you're a necromancer.

MATT: “No! I don't deal with that ridiculous stuff.”

TALIESIN: He's talking about transmutation of some kind.

MATT: “Yes, yes! Thank you. The transitioning of essences or sparking essence within what was once non-living matter. I'm talking about elements, I'm not talking about flesh.”

MARISHA: Like natural elements?

LAURA: Like golems.

TALIESIN: It's the veganism of necromancy. It's just kind of dull.

MATT: “What was that?”

TALIESIN: Nothing.

MATT: “Now, I had previously asked you to retrieve an item in the past. That was part of this research and I was nearing a breakthrough, I believe. However, if you could find your way into this abode and retrieve for me– It's in the basement, amongst my work desk area. It's a simple dark iron and cobalt circlet. A band, if you will. If you could retrieve that for me, I would make it quite worth your while and be ever-grateful and in your service.”

LIAM: What are we talking about, a pile of coin, or something else?

MATT: “As I said before, I am quite the collector, and while I do hate to relinquish my grasp on various parts of this collection, for someone who does me a grand favor, I am willing to look the other way as one might disappear.”

LAURA: What does the circlet do?

MATT: “It's more of an experimental piece.”

LIAM: Come on. Don't treat us like a bunch of fucking assholes. It's in the middle of shit right now. We're not going to go in there for a trinket. It's obviously something very worthwhile. You would have a better chance with us if you're honest.

MATT: Drez at this point steps forward and goes, “I would appreciate if you respected the master for his research. He is going to offer you a great guide.”

MARISHA: Oh, shut up, Drez.

LIAM: Yeah, you're an asshole. You're the biggest asshole. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to you. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to you.

MATT: “Sir, perhaps we need to–” At which point he looks over and the master's like (cackling). “About time someone called you on it.”

SAM: Master Quall. We're looking for the Vestiges of Divergence.

LAURA: Scanlan, what the fuck?

SAM: Oh, am I not supposed to say that? Do you know where those are? That's what we want. If you can offer us one of those, we'll do business with you. Otherwise, we're going to fuck off.

MARISHA: Wait, he might. Look, Master Quall. Finish what you were saying first.

MATT: “Yes. I've heard of this title before. You say you're seeking them, are you?”

SAM: I am. Not them.

MATT: “Where are you seeking these? Whereabouts are you off to?”

MARISHA: Well, we were headed towards–

SAM: We don't know where they are.

LAURA: They're all sorts of different places. We're trying to figure that out right now. We're not exactly sure. We're not exactly sure, Keyleth.

SAM: We thought you might know.

MARISHA: How is what we're seeking less important than where we're seeking it? I'm really confused.

TRAVIS: Oh, you know, just in case we mention where we might be looking for them, in front of these people.

LAURA: Because what if he goes to find them?

MATT: “Don't worry.”

MARISHA: Does he look like the man capable of going and finding things? He's trying to send us back into his own god damn basement to get his own shit.

MATT: “See, there is a woman who speaks both her mind and a mind of quite acute truth.”

SAM: She is cute.

LAURA: Is it morning yet? Can Pike come join us yet?

SAM: She is being sought.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation, there's a little (crackling) flash of divine energy before you, and a slight popping sound as out of the middle of the air next to you, there comes, jogging in, a freshly winded, fully armored Pike.

SAM: What an entrance!

TALIESIN: See, you start arguing and you just make a gnome. This is what happens.

TRAVIS: I run over and I pick up Pike and I spin her around in a big bear hug.

ASHLEY: Hey, Grog!

TRAVIS: Oh, my little buddy Pike. We missed you.

ASHLEY: Oh, I missed you guys.

MARISHA: Hi, Pike!

ASHLEY: Hey guys! Oh, who are these two?

MATT: At this point, Master Quall is going through a series of notes. He goes, “I'm very certain this gnome was not created.”

MARISHA: And you remember Drez.

ASHLEY: Oh, yes. Mr. Vina. Drez Vina.

MATT: “Yes. It is a delight to see you as well, small one.”

ASHLEY: Hi!

MATT: “Well, this grew very complicated.”

TALIESIN: Master Quall.

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: Let's lay the cards on the table. If we find this thing of yours in your basement, and if we go to your home, we are certainly going to go into the basement and find it now regardless, we're going to figure out what it is before we give it to you anyway. The world is dangerous right now, and it is not appropriate to just be handing mystical artifacts of great strength willy-nilly to anybody who asks. The world is dangerous and we need to make sure that power is flowing in the correct direction. Now, you can either be forthright with that and get your property, or we can find it in your basement and experiment on it until we know what it is.

MATT: “Good luck even attempting such an endeavor.”

TALIESIN: I have very good luck attempting these endeavors.

MATT: “Well. Let's just say that it's a device that, when completed, to the specialty of my own training and studies, would enable me the means of personal defense to get me through these rather difficult and dangerous times. As I am not getting any younger and it seems that we're having entities of great power and mischief intent on destruction continuously tearing down my very doorways–” He looks off in the direction of Westruun. “I would feel more comfortable if I could keep myself well guarded. And that is what this circlet is intended to provide.”

LAURA: Tell you what, Master Quall.

MATT: “Yes?”

LAURA: We're not heading there now, but we'll be going back, and when we do, we will find your home, and we will search out this circlet.

SAM: Well, hold on, before we just say no, what's the reward? Do we know what you're paying for this?

TALIESIN: Well, he's got a collection.

MATT: “A simple trade of my collection. You bring me one of my items, and I gift you one of mine as well.”

TALIESIN: I personally feel this is reasonable.

MARISHA: I'm curious if you could be more beneficial in paying us with information. With knowledge.

LAURA: As well as something from your collection.

MATT: “I am more than willing to offer information for trade. It is quite a grand trade indeed. If that is acceptable.”

LAURA: No, we would want something as well, physically.

TALIESIN: This is a deposit of information.

MATT: “All right. Then, as part of the deposit, what do you require of me?”

MARISHA: Are you familiar with a sphinx named Osysa?

MATT: “Can't say that I am.”

MARISHA: Resides up– No?

TALIESIN: What does he know, perhaps, of the– no?

MARISHA: Are you familiar with any other sphinxes that reside in this area? Do you know the address?

MATT: “I'm sorry, but they don't really wander in open daylight.”

LAURA: Do you know where they wander?

TALIESIN: In darkness, if they don't wander in open daylight.

MATT: He gives a curious look at both of you. “I am not a master of mythology. I do not know of such entities and where they might reside or exist. I apologize.”

MARISHA: Well, you do seem to be a master of items. We are looking for certain special Vestiges.

MATT: “So you say. And you're saying this sphinx may want to help you in this endeavor?”

MARISHA: We're not sure yet.

TALIESIN: It's a long walk.

MARISHA: We thought maybe he could help us find them, but maybe you could be of a similar service.

MATT: “Well. What I do have–” And he turns around. “Come with me to my tent, please. I may have something that can be of service to you.”

MARISHA: Sure.

LAURA: I give Pike a hug as we walk to his tent.

SAM: Actually, I pull Pike aside and say– Well, not aside. I just ask her, how's Whitestone? What's going on there?

ASHLEY: Well, it's okay. I think I got to the point where I couldn't build anymore, heal any more people. I needed a little adventure. But everything is as you would think it would be.

SAM: No dragon attacks?

ASHLEY: None at the moment. We've been trying to hold down the place as much as we can, and getting there seems to be okay.

LIAM: I did not go up to Pike. I hung way the fuck back.

MATT: All right. You guys eventually make your way back to the small outpost, at this point, to the tent of Drez Vina and Master Quall. Master Quall steps inside. You hear him rummaging through some things. Something rolls and breaks, and you hear, “Oh, damn it!” from the inside. He comes back out and goes, “All right, so, this.” And he holds up this small glass bauble. The inside has a spinning, looks like a brass gyroscope-type interior. He goes, “This item, when clasped and concentrated on, should light up any sort of nearby magical incantations or enchantments. This, if you are in the presence of such objects as you are seeking, should be quite helpful in locating their presence. It does not have an incredibly long range, but it should, at the very least, be somewhat helpful.”

LAURA: That's pretty cool.

SAM: You're giving this to us?

MATT: “I'm lending it to you. Should you wish this to be part of the trade instead of something from my collection…”

LAURA: No no no. Lending is–

TALIESIN: Lending is perfectly agreeable.

MATT: “Now I have lent you something in the past, and not only did it not return to me, but I had to extract the funds by forcing another contract on you. Can I trust you to complete this endeavor?”

SAM: You can trust us, as far as Grog can throw me.

TRAVIS: Pretty fucking far.

TALIESIN: You can trust her.

MATT: “Deal.” And he hands it out.

TRAVIS: We will make our way into the city, and when we do, we will look for your items.

MATT: “Thank you. I appreciate that.”

SAM: Or we could just send Vex on a broom right now to get it solo–

MARISHA: Wait, what? What?

TALIESIN: We are not flying a half-elf into the city on a broom that she has already fallen off of in the last 24 hours.

LIAM: Archers!

LAURA: I am recovering a bit right now, but thank you for the wonderful, wonderful idea, Scanlan!

SAM: I think you can do it. I think you can do it.

LAURA: Thank you! I appreciate the vote of confidence.

LIAM: He is a tactician.

MARISHA: Hey, what might this item be called, Sir Quall?

MATT: “I haven't named it, actually. I made it for myself. Call it what you like.”

SAM: How about “The Hunk of Quall”?

MARISHA: The Hunk of Quall.

MATT: “Should you wish, certainly.”

TALIESIN: Didn't we had a conversation about letting him name things? I feel like we had this conversation.

TRAVIS: Always do it, right?

MATT: “Enjoy carrying among yourselves The Hunk of Quall.”

TRAVIS: Thank you. Drez Vina, it hasn't been a pleasure, nice to see you.

MATT: Drez crosses his arms, “Indeed. All right, good luck.”

TRAVIS: And can I take Pike around the shoulder and lead her out of the tent?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Hey, hey… hey, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yeah?

TRAVIS: So I'm glad things have been good at Whitestone. They've been good, yeah?

ASHLEY: Yeah, they've been all right, I mean, it's okay, I've been missing you guys, though.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we miss you a whole lot. Listen, I've got some rough news, actually. We made it back to Westruun, and the city has kind of been ransacked and overtaken. It was attacked by a bunch of dragons, and what's worse is that after it was attacked– you know that herd of wandering goliaths that left me for dead in the woods?

ASHLEY: Of course.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they've kind of taken control of the city, and I think that's my family that's in there.

ASHLEY: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Look, we wanted to go in, I wanted to look for Wilhand, but we haven't done it yet, and–

ASHLEY: Have you heard anything else? Do you think they are okay?

TRAVIS: I don't know. Some of us went in via mist and they haven't seen him, but they don't really know what he looks like. The place looks pretty rough, he's not here in this little encampment. I'm not really sure where he is.

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, I wonder if we should go look for him

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to, but like, listen. I'm afraid to put everybody in the group in jeopardy. They're going to be there, in the city, and I was wondering what you might think about going to look for a few other more Vestiges, trying to find Osysa's mate and seeing if we can find anything that can help us, because it's going to be a fight, right? And you know me: I fucking love a fight, but–

ASHLEY: That's a lot of them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's a lot.

ASHLEY: I think we should wait until we're fully prepared.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you think so?

ASHLEY: I think so. I don't think it's safe any other way.

TRAVIS: I missed you so much!

ASHLEY: Oh Grog, I missed you too!

TRAVIS: And I cry a little bit into my beard, and I wipe it away I'm like: Oh! The pollen out in these fields is awful!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: It's okay, Grog! I give him a hug, and I take my blue scarf and I pat his eyes.

ALL: Oh!

TRAVIS: (crying) It's raining!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: As soon as we find this out, if we find nothing– I promise, I pledge to you that we will find Wilhand.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: All right.

SAM: So, is the task then to go find the orcs that are keeping their people hostage up in the Frostweald?

LAURA: We head into the Frostweald, we find the orcs and send them back and keep going and find this Sphinx-y mate.

MARISHA: Did we have any other information of where he is in the Frostweald or do we just know Frostweald?

LAURA: We just know Frostweald. Pike?

MATT: The information that you received was, somewhere in the base of the Stormcrest Mountains, past the Frostweald.

MARISHA: Past the Frostweald?

LIAM: Through it to the base of the mountain.

LAURA: Of the what mountain?

MATT: Stormcrest Mountains.

LIAM: That's a real place.

TRAVIS: Actually, Pike.

ASHLEY: Yeah?

TRAVIS: I've been holding on to something, and I think you might like it. I have these Gauntlets of Ogre Power, and I can't wear them anymore, because I got some new stuff, and if you wear it, your strength score goes up to 19.

ASHLEY: What!

TRAVIS: Do you want them? You have to attune to them.

ASHLEY: Do you think they'll fit?

TRAVIS: I think they might shrink. I don't know, though.

TALIESIN: Do you know what 19 means?

TRAVIS: Isn't it like a French dish?

LAURA: Yes.

ASHLEY: I would love to wear those.

TRAVIS: All right, and I give Pike the Gauntlets of Ogre Power.

MATT: As you guys take a short rest to prepare for this, Ashley, you take some time with the gauntlets, and while you're looking them over and taking your own armored gauntlets off and replacing them with these, your hand goes– It's like placing a baseball into a bucket. It's so big around your arm. But then as you take a moment to see the metal and reflect upon it, you can feel the hum of magical energy that begins to invisibly intertwine with your forearm as the metal begins to creak almost, and it shrinks down, encases itself to your forearm. While it doesn't match the metal of your armor, the silver-gold theme that goes on along it with this weird ogreish face that's built into the plate there, you feel suddenly this surge of strength begin to spill through your body, and you're pretty confident that this may be useful in the near future.

LAURA: You're stronger than Grog now!

MATT: You are technically now stronger than Grog.

ASHLEY: I let out a little battle cry. (battle cry)

TRAVIS: Yeah, and I go to give her a fist bump.

ASHLEY: I fist bump him!

MATT: And it hurts you a little bit.

LAURA: Oh, shit! Pike is so strong!

TRAVIS: Holy shit. Nice, Pike!

MATT: Pike, what was your strength before?

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: Okay. At a 19, you're now at a plus four as opposed to a plus one to all your hit and damage with your physical weapons.

LIAM: You just Tyler Durden-ed out, son!

MATT: So on your sheet, where it has your attack bonus with your mace, or with your morningstar, and the damage, add a plus three to both the attack bonus and damage.

ASHLEY: All right, because right now my attack bonus is plus seven, so I add three to that.

MATT: It's now plus ten.

LAURA: Holy moley!

MARISHA: That's so cool! You're a beast!

LIAM: Little golden bullet.

ASHLEY: I can't find a pencil! That's okay, I'll make a note. I can do it later. I am unprepared. Yes, I am unprepared for all this strength!

TRAVIS: Right, so now we have all our stuff. Should we make our way towards that area they said that the orc raiders were coming from?

SAM: Yeah, it's a couple days from here?

MATT: On foot travel, it's about a day and a half.

SAM: For mist form?

MATT: Mist form, you'll get there by nightfall.

LAURA: But we can't use it, because she already used the travel through the trees.

MARISHA: Sorry.

LAURA: But we saved all those people, Scanlan.

SAM: Pike, can you make us mist?

ASHLEY: No, I can't do anything like that.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: Let's walk.

ASHLEY: I feel like I haven't spent any time with Vax.

SAM: With Vax? Oh, he's around. You know, he's probably just sulking.

LIAM: I walk away.

MATT: You glance back and see Vax towards the back of the group. Noticing this conversation, Vax immediately turns around and walks away and dodges around one of the nearby tents.

LIAM: Big nope to that one.

TRAVIS: What is the weather like outside?

MATT: Actually, today it's spotty clouds, but blue sky. It's actually pretty good weather, versus a lot of the rain that you had over in Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Cold, snowy on the ground?

MATT: No. Because you're getting a little further south than the northern area of it, the temperature is probably around high 70s, low 80s.

LAURA: It is going to get cold, though, once we head into the Frostweald. We had all those fancy cloaks. I had winter's cloaks for all of us before.

TRAVIS: I still have mine.

LAURA: Does everyone still have their winter's cloaks from a long time ago?

MARISHA: I do.

TALIESIN: Oh, wow, yes, look at that.

SAM: I didn't burn it.

TRAVIS: Let's go.

SAM: We're just going to walk? Do these refugees have any horses or anything?

LAURA: They're refugees.

MATT: The few horses they do have are currently quartered to wagons and look to be more beasts of burden for, if they have to move, to carry most of their goods with them, as opposed to riding horses.

TRAVIS: Come on, man, let's just hoof it.

SAM: All right, we'll walk.

MARISHA: Oh my gosh, are we walking? We haven't walked anywhere in so long.

LIAM: It's like we're back in New York again.

MARISHA: It's like we're level three again.

MATT: And those horses will survive, because you didn't take them.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's fucked up.

LAURA: That's really sad.

TRAVIS: Take a walk. Save a horse.

MATT: That's a good Vox Machina bumper sticker.

TALIESIN: My other horse is walking.

TRAVIS: Coming to the Geek and Sundry store.

MATT: All right. You guys make your Fellowship trek southward with the sweeping camera drone shot.

LAURA: I constantly keep an eye out for anything in the front of us and behind us.

MATT: Thankfully, most of these fields, of varying degrees of grass height, but for the most part it's pretty wide vision of where you're heading.

MARISHA: I paint pictures in the clouds as we go.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. That'll definitely not let anyone know magical people are on their way.

TALIESIN: Just point arrows in the opposite direction.

TRAVIS: Graffiti as we go.

ASHLEY: Can I insight-check Vax?

MATT: Sure. Roll an insight check.

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

MATT: I believe you.

MARISHA: This never happens.

SAM: You just saw all of his dirty dreams.

MATT: What does she see and read on your face and body language, Vax?

LIAM: I got to say this?

MATT: I can say it, if you want to.

LIAM: I don't want these assholes to know what I'm thinking. I don't know. Can't whisper it to her.

MATT: You can text it to her real fast, if you want.

LIAM: Yeah, I'll text it to you.

LAURA: But put it on Twitter so that everybody else knows what it is.

LIAM: No.

ASHLEY: I'll post it.

MATT: Okay, so you'll have an incoming text of information. As you guys continue walking, these are the observations you make of Vax as you travel southward. You travel for the better part of a day. You get quite a bit south. You do see in the distance a few times what appear to be some pack animals, some larger beasts that roam the land, none that are necessarily aggressive unless you encroach upon their territory, and Keyleth, you have experience with some of these beasts, so you manage to keep people at bay and traverse around what they claim as their own landscape. No terrible detriment to your traveling speed. You make your way to the point where the sun goes down. You can stop and camp for the night or you can push through the evening. What do you wish to do?

MARISHA: Are there any trees nearby?

MATT: Little periods here, little tiny groves that might be spotty along your journey, but for the most part it's open fields.

MARISHA: How much further do we have, do you think?

MATT: One more day. One more eight-hour period of travel.

LAURA: We should probably rest, then, right? We'll be hitting the Frostweald at night tomorrow.

TALIESIN: We're not in a rush.

LAURA: Not anymore. The dragons are bunkered down, I believe.

TALIESIN: Everything we do now is measured in weeks and months and not days.

LAURA: And I still have a little dried blood on the outside of my ear. I could use a bit of rest.

TALIESIN: Actually, yeah, do you have a concussion? Is that something that we can– how many fingers am I holding up?

LAURA: You're really blurry, Percy, I have no idea.

TRAVIS: Nine!

MATT: Save versus brain swelling. Are you guys setting up camp?

LAURA: I want to pull my brother aside when we set up camp.

SAM: Do we want camp, or do you want to sleep in a mansion?

LAURA: Pike hasn't seen your beautiful mansion!

MARISHA: Oh, you have to show her the marble floors.

TALIESIN: Do we want to do it now, or do we want to do it tomorrow night, is the question?

SAM: We can do it both.

LAURA: Oh, that's right– We can do it both nights?

SAM: I can do it every day, right?

ASHLEY: Where do you have a mansion?

LAURA: Scanlan has a mansion, Pike!

SAM: I inherited some money. It's a long story. There was a great-uncle Vesuvius.

TALIESIN: Also known as Uncle Touchy. Uncle No-No.

LIAM: Canon, that's canon.

SAM: The court said that he had to give me– No. We'll sleep in the mansion tonight, and they all know where they're sleeping, but I'll personally show Pike to her chambers, which are right next door to mine at the end of the long hallway. My room, obviously, the biggest, tallest. Pike's a close second. Beautiful, covered in yellow rose petals as far as you can see.

MATT: So, Pike, as Scanlan creates this somewhat shimmering door of mystical energy in the middle of the air off of the path you guys have been walking, in the middle of this field. It's just the open grass that's blowing with this gentle night breeze, a little bit of the moonlight is coming through the clouds, giving enough of a visual of this change in the air space. He pushes open the shimmering door, and on the inside is this beautiful mansion. Tall foyer with marble floors, pillars that raise to the ceiling with gold trim. There's a giant portrait in the center of the main stairway now that has both Scanlan and you on horseback over a beautiful landscape. There are a number of mystical servants that are somewhat transparent and spiritual, arcane energy in form, that take your coats and offer food. A delicious meal is presented for all of you.

SAM: Mostly chicken.

MATT: It's mostly chicken. It's a lot of chicken.

LAURA: I'm having a lot of talk with the servants about different ways to prepare food.

SAM: Please do.

TALIESIN: They keep clucking it up.

MATT: Protein, bro! Scanlan does lead you to your room, which is right next to his, and covered in yellow rose petals, a beautiful interior. The color scheme is marked tailored specifically to your tastes that he's been able to glean from conversations with you over the past couple years.

SAM: Blues, silvers. There's a little mini prayer area for her to pray to Sarenrae, and there's a little statue of Sarenrae, and if you pull it, a little secret door opens to my room. But it's a small door that only a gnome could fit through.

ASHLEY: Oh, great! Is there a lock on that, maybe?

(laughter)

SAM: Only on my side.

ASHLEY: Okay. Oh, this is beautiful, Scanlan!

SAM: I did it for you. And, hey, while we have a moment alone, can I just mention something to you? Listen, I'm not really concerned with other people's vices or bad behaviors, but Grog has this sword, and it's sort of not good. It could be used for good, possibly, but I'm just worried about it. Just keep an eye on it. I don't know what it is, and maybe you could just check it out next time you're friending it up with him.

ASHLEY: Okay. When they had that fight with Percy, up in the house, I felt like there was something weird with that sword. I'll check it out.

SAM: I don't want to judge him or what he does, but just make sure that it won't kill any of us. That's all I care about.

ASHLEY: Yeah, that's a good plan. Okay, I will. Thanks, Scanlan.

SAM: Sleep tight. And if you hear any footsteps in your room, it's not me. It's the servants, I assure you.

LAURA: Can I find– Is there a library in the mansion, Scanlan?

SAM: Of course.

LAURA: Can I pull my brother into a library or something? I just want to talk to you.

LIAM: What? What?

LAURA: Okay, weirdo. I couldn't help but notice, anywhere Pike was, you were not, all day today, and I have a feeling it's because–

LIAM: You want to talk?

LAURA: Yes. I do. Don't walk away from me, please. I have a feeling it's because of this Raven Queen situation. I don't know. I know that you offered yourself to her to save me, and I can't put into words how much that means to me. I'm worried that she took you up on the offer, and I know you're worried about it, too. And I'm afraid that's why you're avoiding Pike. You're afraid she's going to see something in you. But I wanted to tell you, I've been looking through this book. It's the best 35 gold I've ever spent. Maybe it was 30 gold, I don't even remember anymore.

LIAM: It was 30.

LAURA: It was 30! It would have been worth 35 for all the things that I found in it! Look, it's got all this information about the Raven Queen, and I've been looking at it all the time. I don't think she's as horrible as you're afraid she is. Can I tell you what I found?

LIAM: Yes, please.

LAURA: It says that those that follow her must hold no pity for those who suffer and die, for death is the natural end of life. That's not bad. Bring down the proud who try to cast off the chains of fate. As the instrument of the Raven Queen, you must punish hubris where you find it. Bring down those who try to cast off the chains of fate. The Raven Queen represents death, right? Therefore she hates those that live an immortal life. She hates vampires! We hate vampires! They're terrible people, right? That's not bad! Watch for the cult of Orcus, and stamp them out whenever they arise. Orcus is bad. If she hates him, then she must not be that terrible.

LIAM: She's already speaking to me.

LAURA: Oh. And?

LIAM: I don't know, Vex'ahlia. I don't know what this means. I know that she's not a force for evil. Neither are funeral homes. I don't want to bed down in one.

LAURA: Well, that's understandable.

LIAM: But it doesn't matter. And I'd do it again, because I did it for you, and I am trying to come to terms with it, not knowing the terms.

LAURA: Well. We've lived half our life in the shadows. You've made them your home. Am I right?

LIAM: Maybe so.

LAURA: This is a time you can either let those shadows swallow you down and keep falling into a hole, or you can use them to your advantage. You can become a champion. It's pretty fucking badass, if you ask me.

LIAM: Do you know how bad this armor smells?

LAURA: I can smell it, actually. Pretty terrible.

LIAM: It's several centuries old. It's not pleasant.

LAURA: Maybe we can get you some oils or something to put on it.

LIAM: Maybe.

LAURA: What I'm saying is, brother, I'm proud of you, and I'm happy for you, and I'm so, so thankful for you. And you don't need to be frightened! This is a wonderful thing. Not many fucking people can say they're a champion of a fucking god.

LIAM: Listen. I'll take what you say under consideration. Again, none of us, you and I don't know what this means. I'm waiting to see.

LAURA: All right. But as someone who's seen the other side and has come back thanks to you, there's no use living your life in fear. I love my reckless brother, as much as he hurts my heart. I love you for that, and don't be afraid to be that.

LIAM: I have no clever answer to give you.

LAURA: That's wonderful. I love you. And I walk away!

(laughter)

LIAM: I go to bed.

TALIESIN: Before Scanlan disappears, I grab him as he's leaving.

SAM: I'm just making the rounds, make sure everyone's tucked in for the night.

LIAM: Scanlan's like, wasn't looking in on Pike. Wasn't looking in on Pike.

TALIESIN: Have you, perhaps, installed some sort of workspace in this wonderful home of yours for me? I've got a few little projects I want to poke at.

SAM: You mean the all-purpose room?

LAURA: The Room of Requirement?

TALIESIN: I'm a little worried by what all-purpose necessarily means.

SAM: Don't look in there with a black light.

TALIESIN: It's not really a work table, is it?

LIAM: It is the danger room.

SAM: It's all purposes, Percy. All purposes. But yes, it is a private room. No one can hear you scream in there. It's the farthest wing we have. I can give you some servants to help you set something up, bring in some tables, whatever. We don't have much in here, we're not prepared for chemical reactions.

TALIESIN: Nothing complicated, just some very basic blacksmithing and a little bit of leatherwork.

SAM: Do I have that stuff? Anything to help him?

MATT: Yeah. If it was prepared within the house.

SAM: I tried to make enough stuff for all of us to have our basic needs met.

TALIESIN: I can think of some very sexy things that can be done with an anvil. Think about it.

SAM: All my anvils are gnome-sized.

TALIESIN: That's comical.

MARISHA: Keyleth pops her head out into the hallway. Did I hear something about working? Are you working?

TALIESIN: Yes. Scanlan's helping me find a room that apparently is so sound-proof we don't actually have to hear anyone else's drama.

MARISHA: Oh, that's fantastic.

TALIESIN: I know. Grab a book. It'll be fun.

MARISHA: I might join you.

SAM: Are you going to have a working dinner? I'll send some chickens down.

MARISHA: I can't sleep, so, yes.

TRAVIS: What about cows?

TALIESIN: No cows in my room either, please.

MARISHA: I join Percy and help him.

MATT: Okay. You guys find the all-purpose room, which does have the basics required for smithing. The smithing gear that is brought to you by the servants in itself is very, very finely crafted and nearly weightless. It's really impressive, and you look at the label, and it has a small timer on it before it becomes immaterial.

TALIESIN: I can work with materials that are in the Bag of Holding, that are real materials, as long as I put them back in the Bag of Holding and take them with me? I can't leave anything, obviously.

MATT: Yeah. Anything you leave in here will just be spat out.

TALIESIN: Oh, it'll just be spat out. That's lovely.

MATT: Yeah, onto the ground where it was.

TALIESIN: For the moment, because I don't have everything I need for the broom yet, I want to work on a piece of jewelry, if that's okay. I want to work on the thing.

MATT: Work on jewelry?

TALIESIN: I want to construct a little piece of jewelry if that's okay. Not magical.

MATT: Do you have a jeweler's kit?

TALIESIN: Do I have a jeweler's kit?

MATT: It's a whole different skill set, man.

TALIESIN: I can't tinker something?

MATT: You can tinker something, but jewelry is different from tinkering.

TALIESIN: No, well, this is a piece that has purpose. It actually is going to be a functional object.

MATT: What is the function of this object? You need to tell me these things.

TALIESIN: I know. This is something that I– I'm so sorry.

MATT: I'm going to make something! Make me roll for it! I got to know what you're doing.

TALIESIN: I want to make a– I'm so sorry, I'm losing the word.

MARISHA: Hey, Percy, what are you trying to make?

TALIESIN: Something that's too complicated to explain to you. I'm blanking on it. I may have to just give you the name at the break. A little herb pouch, like one of those cages that close up to put herbs in them?

SAM: Oh, like you make tea with?

MATT: Okay. It won't be pretty, but you can make it functional. Yeah, go ahead and make a tinkering check.

TALIESIN: All right, I'll make it pretty later.

LIAM: Like a Shoprite bag with a bunch of shit in it?

MATT: This will be a dexterity mod, because it's not a very complicated piece based on what you've constructed in the past. It's more about your ability to make it work.

TALIESIN: Dexterity? Thank god, because that's a terrible roll. 14.

MATT: 14. Okay, it takes you the better part of the night.

MARISHA: Do I assist him at all?

MATT: With a job this small, there's not a whole lot you can assist with except handing him tools.

TALIESIN: I'm not going to run the whole night. At some point I'm going to be like, I don't have the design yet. This is something I want to get right, so this is going to be working towards it.

MATT: Okay, so you get the first stage of that set and ready to go.

TALIESIN: I can't think of the name of what it is. I'm so embarrassed.

MATT: You all eventually find yourselves to rest, tasks completed to the extent of which you wanted to, conversations finished. You find yourselves at breakfast, a delightful spread of breakfast chickens prepared for you.

MARISHA: I pick one up off the table and I say, hey Vex! (whoosh)

LAURA: Shit! I'm not even on my– (grunt)

MATT: All of you duck instinctively as the chicken has enough time to arc and begin to plummet down before she gets her arrow out, and you see her aiming downward as it falls. As she releases the arrow, it manages to catch it. Go ahead and roll for an attack, see how well it hits.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. 30?

MATT: (arrow impact)

LAURA: Oh, wait, 28, 28.

MATT: (slightly quieter arrow impact) It pins the chicken to the wall, and then it just sags. The wooden shaft slowly snaps under the weight of the chicken before it hits the ground. One of the servants scoops it up and sets it back on the table in front of Keyleth with the broken arrow shaft sticking out.

MARISHA: I like that game. It's my new favorite game.

LIAM: Do you want some more broom target practice?

LAURA: I need to practice with this broom.

LIAM: You do need to practice, seriously.

MARISHA: We have more chickens.

TRAVIS: We've got stuff to do.

LAURA: Yeah, we have stuff to do.

LIAM: I'm still eating. I would love to see you, for five minutes, get up on that broom and fly around and fucking put some arrows in some chickens.

LAURA: All right, fine, I'll fucking practice. Does it help me at all to practice on this broom?

LIAM: It helps me.

SAM: I will command seven servants to each have a loaded chicken at the ready.

LIAM: Pull!

LAURA: I start flying.

SAM: Vax, you can do the honors and say the pulls.

LAURA: I clench really hard with my thighs to try to hold on to this broom.

MATT: As the rest of you enjoy what is the strangest of Medieval Times experiences you've had, glancing upward to the raised ceiling of this dining room area, you watch Vex spiral around on her broom before, Scanlan?

SAM: Vax is saying pull.

LIAM: Pull!

TALIESIN: (chicken clucking)

MATT: Roll, with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, Jesus. Okay.

TRAVIS: Say it. Say it!

LAURA: One!

TALIESIN: Easiest number to count to.

MATT: So as the first chicken goes in the air, she reaches and goes to aim. However, she catches herself. The broom throws her off, and she stops just in time and haphazardly focuses on just the chicken, not realizing where the chicken had now fallen past. Releases it. Scanlan, I want you to make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Nine.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Okay, that's not that bad. Damage? Oh, it's automatic hit?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, no.

LIAM: Full damage.

LAURA: That's 17.

MATT: So, Scanlan, as you're watching this, chewing, suddenly, (impact).

SAM: (screaming)

LAURA: Shit! Scanlan, Scanlan, I'm so sorry! I land, I land. I land and I instantly cast Cure Wounds on him. Fuck, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.

MATT: A big old chicken dangling at the end of the arrow.

LAURA: Pike! Pike, help, help, help, help!

TRAVIS: I'm just applauding. Again! Again! I pick up my chicken and I throw it at Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Does this mean when the night's over there's going to be a little pool of blood where the door was?

MATT: You'll find out. Go ahead and roll for healing.

LAURA: Oh, God, okay.

MATT: As Vex reaches out and grasps you and manages to heal some of your wounds.

LAURA: Oh, good, that's good. It's just 1d8, do I add anything?

MATT: 1d8 plus your wisdom modifier.

LAURA: 11.

MATT: So you heal 11 hit points.

SAM: Can I pull out the arrow?

MATT: Sure. A gout of blood sprays out.

LAURA: I hold my hand there. Pike, can you help?

ASHLEY: I'll help, I'll help. That broom is amazing!

MARISHA: Isn't it, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yes! And there are too many chickens in here, anyway. Healing Scanlan.

MATT: Pike, you're just casting a Cure Wounds?

ASHLEY: Yes, I'll cast Cure Wounds.

MATT: The wound closes as Pike reaches out and, with a small chuckle, heals how many hit points?

LIAM: The chicken comes back to life!

ASHLEY: What did you say, Matt?

MATT: How much do you heal? Roll 1d8 plus five, I'm pretty sure. That was amazing.

LAURA: Sorry, Scanlan. You can blame my brother.

ASHLEY: Nine.

SAM: I'm back.

MATT: You're back to full. The wounds close. Pike's there holding her hands on your shoulders, closing the wound.

SAM: Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: You're welcome.

SAM: All right. Well, let's say breakfast is over.

LAURA: I'm going to practice a bit more, you guys.

MATT: The other servants are holding their chickens at the ready.

SAM: Pull.

MARISHA: Go, go, go!

ASHLEY: Can I try punching one in the air with my new gauntlets?

MATT: Okay. As he's about to throw it up, Pike runs over and grabs the chicken and throws it and (boom) punches it in the air. Pike, roll a strength check. Roll a d20 and add plus four to it.

LIAM: 20 chicken McNuggets fly through the air.

ASHLEY: This is so dumb, why am I doing this? What am I doing?

MATT: Roll a d20, add four to it.

LIAM: For the greater good.

ASHLEY: Okay, it's not that high. 11.

MATT: 11, okay. You (boom) bat it up with a Pike punch. We'll say for the sake of brevity on this, go ahead and roll one more attack, and this will count for the rest of the shots. With disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, come on. 16.

MATT: 16, okay. You do manage to recover your sense of self-esteem as you manage to pin a couple more chickens against the walls and the table in here, but each arrow is just a reminder of the one stray that began this whole breakfast excursion.

LAURA: Sorry about that, Scanlan.

SAM: Great job, Vex.

MARISHA: Guys, this is the best brunch we've ever done.

LIAM: I will never forget it.

MARISHA: That was great. Thank you for that, Scanlan.

SAM: Sure, sure.

LAURA: We should probably get a start on a walk.

MARISHA: Yeah, so, question, before we leave, you guys–

TALIESIN: This is going to make the archery booth at Ren Faire hilarious. Sorry, okay. Carry on.

MARISHA: Do we want to travel via Wind Walk, or are we okay?

SAM: We're only eight hours away?

TALIESIN: It's only eight hours. Save your strength.

MARISHA: Because I can save my strength.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, save it.

MARISHA: Okay. All right. Thank you.

LAURA: We might come across some orcs.

MARISHA: That's true.

TRAVIS: Hopefully. Shit.

LAURA: I know, right? I could use some.

SAM: All right, let's set out.

MATT: You guys say good-bye to your servants, gather yourselves as you step out and the door closes behind you. Do you choose to leave the spell up, or are you going to fade it as you walk along?

SAM: If I leave it up, can anyone go in there?

MATT: Anyone that you allow into it.

TALIESIN: I want to see if the blood comes out.

SAM: No, I'll shut the door and hide the key under a rock.

MATT: Okay. You guys continue walking southward towards the Frostweald. About another seven to eight hours of travel along that way, you begin to see the Stormcrest Mountains in the distance get closer and loom larger and larger, and you get the feel of the Stormcrest Mountains especially because there is a very large storm surge that seems to rise from the ocean to the east of it that has caused a very heavy thunderstorm that's blasting through. You can't see the peaks of the mountains from this distance. There are clusters of trees and forest areas along, but ahead of you, you can see, coated in a very, very bright, visibly white forest, this is the Frostweald itself, with snowfall. Once again, you've been here before, and there is an essence, and you don't recall the specific reason for it, but there is a purpose, an ancient purpose, as to why this one area is perpetually sitting in the heart of winter. Amongst what is a relatively temperate, in some places almost tropical temperature layer, it is very strange, and part of the mystical calling to the Frostweald is that it is perpetually locked in a winter state. You– don't worry, I'm working on it.

MARISHA: Keyleth takes a second to meditate on the previous time that we were here in the Frostweald, and I cast Find the Path. 6th-level spell. Which gives me the most direct, shortest route as long as I'm on the same plane existence of where I'm going, if I have a vague idea of where I'm going.

MATT: Where are you going?

SAM: We're going to the Stormcrest Mountains, right?

MARISHA: We're trying to get to the Stormcrest Mountains through, but we're also looking for the band of orcs travelling.

MATT: If you name a destination on another plane of existence, a destination that moves, or a destination that isn't specific, such as a green dragon's lair, the spell fails.

MARISHA: But we're in the Frostweald, right?

MATT: Yes. You're approaching it now.

MARISHA: Is the Frostweald considered on a different plane?

MATT: No. But do you have a specific location that you're familiar with that you want to go to?

MARISHA: Well, I can find us the shortest, most direct route to the Stormcrest Mountains.

SAM: Have we been there?

MATT: Yeah, you can see them. I'm trying to figure out. For the spell to work, you have to choose a specific location that you're already familiar with to lead you to it.

MARISHA: Right.

MATT: So what are you saying?

MARISHA: Stormcrest Mountains. But just because I can see them doesn't necessarily mean we're going to find the most direct path, shortest direct path towards it.

MATT: That's true.

MARISHA: Right? Or is this a waste of a spell and I should just do something else?

MATT: I will give you the benefit to say that you can see the mountain range. This is more useful if it's trying to find a place that you're very familiar with, seen a picture of, or you had a very specific bit of information for it. For a general location or a location that you're unaware of, the spell wouldn't have an effect.

LAURA: Maybe you could think of the location of her mate, the sphinx's mate.

MARISHA: I don't know it, so it fails. That's why I was trying to do Stormcrest Mountains, but apparently that's not specific enough.

LAURA: Well, is it specific? It's just we can see them.

LIAM: Yeah, it's right there.

MATT: It's a large range that's very visible.

LIAM: Let's move on, let's move on.

MARISHA: I'll do something else.

TALIESIN: Save it for something special.

MATT: So as you guys press forward to the outside of the Frostweald, the snow- and ice-covered treeline is a very familiar sight from your last time traveling here. There are canopies of pine-like trees that interlock with windless snowfall, that leave a fairly dark interior set from the frozen-over canopy. Slick surfaces and knee-deep snowbanks permeate this entire forest region. Your breath is immediately visible as you step past that threshold, and the temperature drops about 40 degrees from what it was before, getting steadily colder the further in you travel.

LAURA: Bet you're glad you have that beard now, huh? Keeps you warm? No?

TRAVIS: It's actually quite nice out here. This is like spring for me.

LIAM: Are your people– Did you grow up in the cold?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're pretty cool.

LIAM: Wow.

MATT: Pressing in, as the temperature drops further and further, you occasionally come across a broken sunbeam that manages to penetrate aspects, different places in the canopy, and even stepping into those, they don't lend any change in temperature or warmth. The enchantment that surrounds this entire forest doesn't seem to be moved by such natural incursions. Everyone go ahead and roll a perception check.

LAURA: 25. Are we in the woods? 29.

TRAVIS: Two.

MARISHA: 18.

TALIESIN: 15.

SAM: 20.

ASHLEY: 25.

MATT: As you guys are walking through, keeping your eyes peeled, Vax, you're so lost in thought that your eyes glaze over for a second and you forget where you are. Pike and Vex, the two of you get a little bit ahead of the rest of the group, pushing through the snow. You come around from a tree and you can see, this is about an hour or so into your entrance to the Frostweald, you see a small clearing with a few patchy trees outside of the heavy canopy, and what appears to be a couple of small stone ruins and a single obelisk, a monolith-like pillar of stone that juts out of the snow. It's about 200 feet away from you guys, 250 feet.

LAURA: Can we see anything around it? Any people, any trace of tracks in the snow?

MATT: From this distance, no. You don't see any, there are no figures, there is no movement. There is just that stone piece that, at a slight angle, stands out amongst the rest of the treeline.

TRAVIS: What do you see?

LAURA: There's a, look. There's a fucking obelisk. It's a tall stone thing, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah? So?

SAM: Let's go over.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Vex, you and I should hang back, but we'll let everyone else.

MARISHA: It's a big obelisk? Are there any birds or anything like that around?

MATT: Listening, that's what's interesting. Usually forests, because they're teeming with so much life, there's a perpetual sound of things that live amongst the boughs and the treeline. Because it's so cold here, it's eerily silent. Every footfall that hits the snow, you can hear the crunch resounding and echoing through the nearby vicinity. It is just a still, silent atmosphere in this forest.

LAURA: (clanging) Pike!

TRAVIS: Let me check if it's safe to move on. And I reach down and scoop up a handful of snow, right? Just snow? How's it taste?

MATT: It's the clearest snow you've tasted in a long time.

TRAVIS: Shit's crazy pure, yo.

SAM: So then we're safe to move ahead?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're good. Let's go check out the scary obelisk.

LIAM: Everybody starts inhaling snow.

MATT: Are you moving ahead, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm moving ahead. Who wants to come with me to the obelisk?

LAURA: I'm going to hide behind a tree and watch.

LIAM: To the what? What obelisk?

TRAVIS: For what? Why are you hiding?

LAURA: I'm just going to keep guard!

MARISHA: I'll come with you, Grog.

TRAVIS: There's nobody out here.

TALIESIN: I've had bad luck touching things lately. I'm letting other people touch things.

MATT: Grog, Keyleth.

SAM: Pike's coming.

MATT: So Grog, Keyleth, Pike, and Scanlan are all going forward. Looks like Vex, Vax, and Percy are staying.

TALIESIN: I'm getting another angle so that we have two different vantage points of what may happen.

LAURA: Getting a little closer, but keeping.

MATT: Are you going with Percy?

LIAM: I'm brainfarting, so I'm just following Percy.

MATT: Okay. Percy and Vax splinter off to the left, Vex you go ahead and take the right, and you head around this clearing while the rest of you walk into the center of it.

TALIESIN: We're keeping an eye on that thing in the–

LIAM: Look at that!

TALIESIN: I know, it's a thing. We're going to let Grog touch it and see what happens.

MATT: You guys approach, and as you're stepping through the snowfall, which right now is, for you, up to just past your knees, like the grass was. For Keyleth it's just up to your waist. Scanlan, you and Pike are both (grunting) like the dogs jumping through the snow that vanish with each leap as you're having to find your way through this heavy snowfall.

TRAVIS: Do you guys want a ride?

SAM: Yes, please.

TRAVIS: I pick up each gnome on my shoulders.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Grog!

TRAVIS: No problem!

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check as you guys approach this obelisk.

SAM: 25.

TRAVIS: It's a two, minus three.

MARISHA: 11.

MATT: What did you get, Pike?

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: 14, okay. So as you guys approach, from this vantage point, it's carved, definitely, and the carving is very old. Weathered somewhat, but not too heavily, so it's either not very old or there's not a whole lot of weather that comes through here, and by the stillness of the wind since you've entered, you get the feeling that's probably more the case. It's hard to gauge how old or how long it's been here. But there are various carvings amongst it. There is a big symbol. I want to have you guys roll a religion check real fast.

TRAVIS: Awesome. What the fuck. Natural one.

LAURA: You need to not use that dice right now.

SAM: 12.

MARISHA: Religion? Nine.

MATT: Pike?

ASHLEY: 15.

MATT: 15, okay. It looks familiar, but you're having a hard time really getting the essence. Pike, you recognize this. This is not the largely understood or most commonly utilized symbol of Ioun, but it is a very ancient, the basis of the religion of Ioun, which is the same goddess of knowledge that Osysa was overseeing the temple beneath.

ASHLEY: Wait, how do you spell it?

MATT: Ioun. I-O-U-N. You actually carry a stone, enchanted with the essence of Ioun's knowledge.

SAM: Oh, that's my Ion Stone! Ioun Stone!

TRAVIS: Is it made of, it's stone?

MATT: It's solid, solid stone, and goes up about 35 feet or so.

TRAVIS: Hey, Scanlan, I heard if you touch your tongue to something like this, it'll stick.

SAM: Wow. Wow, we should probably try that out. Keyleth?

MARISHA: What?

SAM: Can you go lick that obelisk?

MARISHA: Hell no.

TRAVIS: Why not?

MARISHA: I know that one. But you should do it, Grog. I can't do it, just because of my elven abilities. It's our saliva, it doesn't work the same way. But you should try it, it's crazy.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, that was very clever.

SAM: How far are we?

MATT: You guys are about ten feet from it.

SAM: I'm going to just look around it for any traps.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

SAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay. You have to leap off Grog and start wading through. You're finding pieces of broken stone, smaller chunks about that big and bits of stone dust that are scattered amongst the snow. You push around, because you see the ruined walls around. You do find a larger piece of stone that looks like a broken statue, like there must have been some sort of a statue here that had lost the hand, and it's stumbled there on the ground.

MARISHA: Upon him seeing that, I pull out my Hunk of Quall and see if it lights up.

SAM: Oh, you have to concentrate on it.

TALIESIN: Are there orcs present?

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I knew someone would laugh at that.

MATT: You hold it aloft. It has a small vibration of energy, as part of the crystal sliver itself, but it doesn't seem to change in the environment.

MARISHA: Can I move a little bit closer to the obelisk?

MATT: As you're stepping closer to the obelisk, you also notice there is some writing or some sort of scripture that is carved towards the base, that is partially buried by the snow that has gathered at its base. You find more pieces of statues. Arms, part of a torso, like somebody had knocked over a series of statues. A lot of them have deep grooves in them, like these statues were either carved to pieces, like they were physically torn down–

TALIESIN: Are you describing what you're seeing at all?

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: I can't have a reaction to this unless I'm actually hearing anything.

MARISHA: I do Control Water. Can I do Control Water and clear away all the snow from around it?

MATT: It takes you a little bit of concentration because it's in a different state than liquid, but you begin to focus, and as you guys are watching, Keyleth focusing, a lot of the ice begins to rapidly melt into a water form and it begins to melt away, leaving the wet, muddy ground around it.

SAM: These statues that have been broken. They have gashes and slashes in them?

MATT: Yes, around the areas where they're broken.

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: Can I see the statues at this point?

MATT: From this distance? You can't, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: I want to get a little closer, just so I can make out the statues.

MATT: Okay. As the snowfall begins to melt away, you guys see around the base of this obelisk it is a garden of statue-pieces.

SAM: Hey, hey guys!

TALIESIN: Are they classical statues or are they people in weird poses? Are the poses weird?

MATT: Some poses look aggressive, some poses look surprised–

SAM: Okay, everybody hey hey hey.

TALIESIN: Back up, everybody. Back up now.

MATT: And we're going to go ahead and take a break on that note.

LAURA: We fought basilisks in the Frostweald before.

LIAM: Basilisks here, yes.

MATT: So. We're going to go ahead and take a quick break here for the restroom and–

MARISHA: Son of a bitch.

ASHLEY: Son of a bitch.

MATT: See you guys here in a few minutes.

TRAVIS: I don't see what the problem is.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. So. As the snow is melted away, revealing this garden of statues in various states of– some of them are still solid, some of them are just missing pieces, some of them are entirely shattered, many of them crushed or torn, thick, heavy grooves visible on the pieces of them that have been torn asunder– the party begins to gather their thoughts and figure out what this might be. You did notice as well that there was writing or script among the bottom of the obelisk, and as the snow melts away, there is another large shape that is carved into it.

TRAVIS: Can I hold my hand up to the obelisk and just feel if there's any, like, heat radiating off of it?

MATT: Sure. As you walk up to the edge of the obelisk and put your hand to it, no heat being radiated.

MARISHA: I pull out the hunk of Quall again. Anything? Hold it closer to the symbol.

MATT: It does not seem to be reacting to anything in the immediate vicinity.

TRAVIS: Man, somebody does not like sculptures.

SAM: That–

TALIESIN: Those aren't sculptures.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check?

TRAVIS: No, it's art, I get it.

MATT: What languages do you know?

TRAVIS: It's like, interpretations and it seems whimsical–

LAURA: Can I hop on the broom and fly up and see if I could spot some basilisks around?

MATT: Sure.

ASHLEY: Well, Percy, what do you think they are?

TRAVIS: Where is she going?

MARISHA: Sorry. Elven, Sylvan, Druidic, Primordial.

MATT: As you walk up and begin to hold the Hunk of Quall towards it, you see that the language– the script that is beneath the initial symbol of Ioun that Scanlan had seen is Elvish.

MARISHA: Oh, okay.

MATT: The rough translation is of old, old, old text, it reads, “A name is earned.”

MARISHA: A name is earned?

MATT: A name is earned.

TALIESIN: Oh, no.

MATT: And beneath it, there is what appears to be– the other large carving you saw on it– it looks like a triangle. A dark, recessed triangle that is just built beneath the text that tapers internally into a point. It is almost like a reverse pyramid on the inside. It is just an empty space that comes to a point.

TALIESIN: Oh, no. I think that there are basilisks nearby.

LAURA: Do I see any?

TALIESIN: I think these statues are victims.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check? To see if I can see any signs of basilisks?

MATT: Sure. Make a nature check and you make perception check.

SAM: Are we having a short– is this a short rest?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: 21.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: 26. You glance up above, and you do not see any basilisks. What you can see, this clearing itself is visible from your height, but once you get above the tree-line, you can see the trees are pretty thick. You don't see any signs of basilisks in the vicinity. You, upon looking around the ground, you can see– it's very muddy now from all the snow that had melted down, and you see that some of the mud is slicking into holes in the ground. Like four-foot-wide cavernous holes that were dug, like little burrows that now have all this water and mud seeping into them.

MARISHA: Oh, it was made by a creature, it looks like?

MATT: It looks like. Which one of them (bubbling), expels a bunch of the mud and water, it just comes bubbling outward. At which point, you see something burst out and emerge onto the ground nearby. More of these holes start bursting forth, all the mud and liquid that has seeped into it is now being forced outward, and these creatures, now covered in mud, you can see long, lizard-like bodies with a toothy snout, multiple legs, rows of them down the spine, and its tail flickering about.

LIAM: I'm closing my eyes.

LAURA: Don't look at them!

MATT: I would like you all to roll initiative.

MARISHA: Fuck. Shit. I'm standing right in the middle of them.

TRAVIS: Fuck you.

MARISHA: Got the fucking shittiest initiative rolls.

ASHLEY: Yikes.

TALIESIN: I have a terrible initiative roll.

SAM: Okay, this is it.

TRAVIS: Feral Instinct's screwing me up.

SAM: Battle in the snow. But we've got Ashley.

MATT: It's hard to see with the mud across their surface, but you do see hints of blue coming through. You have encountered these previously– these are referred to as the ice-scaled basilisks, the ones that are more specific to this indigenous region. All righty. So, going by initiative order here, folks, 25 to 20?

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22.

TRAVIS: Percy?

MATT: 20 to 15?

LIAM: 18.

SAM: 19.

MATT: 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I rolled really badly.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Pike?

ASHLEY: I know, I know, my initiative is always shit.

TRAVIS: Welcome back, Pike!

LAURA: She likes to get the lay of the land before she attacks.

ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, you know, I do the clean-up.

MATT: Is that everybody?

MARISHA: Pike.

ASHLEY: I'm eight.

MATT: Pike? Oh. All right. Due to the series of rolls here, they're going last.

SAM: Oh!

MATT: They rolled a five, minus one penalty to dex. So, as these– which more of them burst up right next to Scanlan right there.

SAM: Oh, great.

MATT: As they all burst out of the ground, shaking their heads off of the mud, swinging off, slapping into the stone, splattering across the white snow around them, across some of you, they snarl and hiss. As you see their eyes now (click).

LIAM: Merry Christmas.

MATT: So, top of this would be you, Vex. You actually would be on top here, on the broom, looking from above.

LAURA: We can't look at them, right? We remember that from before?

MATT: You remember, you'll want to try not to.

LAURA: Can we– we can look at them to shoot at them and look away? Just don't look at them at all?

MATT: You can choose at the start of your turn whether to avert your gaze or not. You'll have disadvantage on pretty much everything as long as you're doing that.

LAURA: Ah, that's so annoying! I can't tell how everybody's clumped. They're– just basically they're all amongst all of our friends.

MATT: There's three right here, and one right there behind. It's one, two, three, four.

LAURA: Okay. Can I fly down and land on a tall tree?

MATT: You can try to.

LAURA: Try to brace myself?

MATT: If you would like to try to.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Let's say for the purposes of this, that you coast down to the height. Stupid broom. Let's say you land down somewhere over here.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All righty? There you are.

LAURA: Okay. I avert my gaze-ish, I look off to the side of one, but I can see it in my peripheral, is that how it goes, or it's like–?

MATT: You kind of guess where it is real fast, in the peripheral and kind of–

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark one.

MATT: Which one?

TRAVIS: Laser pointer.

LAURA: Is that Scanlan? That it's next to?

LIAM: Yeah, it's Scanlan next to one of them.

LAURA: I do the one next to Scanlan– That was my eye. That's just a flashlight. Oh, that's how I do it, okay.

MATT: And what are you doing?

LAURA: I'm going to–

LIAM: Professional D&D player.

LAURA: That's right. And I'm going to shoot it!

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Through the Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Okay. So go ahead and roll with disadvantage for the first strike.

LAURA: Oh, I don't get regular because it's my favored terrain, so I cancel it all out?

MATT: It's disadvantage for averting your gaze, advantage for being your favored terrain– I don't think you get advantage on attacks for being in favored terrain, do you? I think it's just on ability checks.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Yeah. So you're at disadvantage.

LAURA: I'm at disadvantage.

MATT: I'll double-check this so the internet doesn't scream at me.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18 with disadvantage?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: That still hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Plus the Blazing Bowstring, plus an additional d10.

MATT: First attack on the basilisk near Scanlan.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17 damage? All right, go ahead and roll for the second attack, with disadvantage as well.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17 does hit as well. So roll for that one. You included the Blazing Bowstring for the first one, right?

LAURA: Yes. 15 on the second.

MATT: 15 points of damage. Holding on the top of the tree, which is starting to bow a little bit with your weight, and you're clutching the broom under one arm, and you pull back and release two arrows in succession, both finding their mark. You did Hunter's Mark damage on top of those?

LAURA: Yes I did.

MATT: All right, good. You see, Scanlan, as you try and avert your gaze momentarily as you see the giant creature there, and you recall, two arrows streak past, which gives you a little PTSD, based on your morning. So that'll complete your turn?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: It's right next to me?

MATT: Yes. Are you averting your gaze or not?

SAM: I'm averting my gaze.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: Well jeez, I mean, do I know where they are?

MATT: You saw them all burst out, once they shook off the mud, you heard her shouting and you were like, oh, hmm.

SAM: So I kind of know where they are. All right. I'm going to hop away five feet from the guy who's– I'm going to get an attack– yeah, that's a fine direction, sure.

MATT: It lunges out at you with a strike.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: That is a 22 to hit?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All righty. As you pull away, pain strikes your body as the sharp, stone-crumbling teeth of the basilisk reach out and pierce your body for 12 points of piercing damage. You wrestle your elbow out of the way, you can feel the wound beneath your leather armor.

TALIESIN: That's barely an arrow and a chicken in the neck.

SAM: (laughs) Okay. And I'm going to aim to the one in the middle there– does anyone have a pointer? Yeah, that one. The other two are within 20 feet of him, yes?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: So I will cast a Wand of Fireballs right there on him.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: On him or behind him, or where–?

SAM: Just behind him so it hits all three?

MATT: Right, and not yourself.

SAM: Yes?

MATT: I figured that's probably what you want to do, okay. As you back up, release it in that direction, the beam of light streaks out from the wand, hitting the snowbank right behind it and exploding. Already the slushy atmosphere is– snow and fire scatter around it as they both screech out in pain. DC of what?

SAM: Oh! DC 15! I wrote it down.

MATT: 15. That's… first one fails. Second one rolled a 15, with its minus one dex, that's a 14, that's a fail. And a natural one. So full damage for all three of them. Go ahead and roll that 8d6. Vax, you're on deck, so be ready.

LIAM: All right, okay.

SAM: 25!

MATT: 25 points of damage total. The flames subside after the force of the explosion. The obelisk itself shakes from the impact. The three basilisks look notably charred, whatever mud was on them is immediately dried and is now cracking on the outside of their scales. You hear the hissing at their presence. You want to keep moving or stay where you are?

SAM: I'll tuck around the obelisk a little bit.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And I'll turn to Pike, my love, and inspire her with a song. I will sing, (singing) I used to scry you on the shit phone…

(laughter)

SAM: (singing) Late-night when I need your love! I know when that poop phone glows, it can only be one gnome! Ever since you left the party, you, you–

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Take your d10 inspiration die, Pike. All right, so d10 inspiration die for you. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Yes. I'm going to click my heels together, set the boots going. I'm going to go very far away towards you, your end of the map. I want to be about a little away from the tree, though, so I've got a clear sight on that one– further back, though. I know. I want to be 50 feet away. Yeah.

MATT: Okay. You're far away, you're off-map.

LIAM: And I'm going to dagger-dagger-dagger him from very far away.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Dagger-dagger-dagger!

LIAM: And I'm going to use that sharpshooter trick where I take a negative five to attack, but add ten to damage?

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

LAURA: On all of them?

MATT: Are you averting your gaze?

LIAM: No.

SAM: Whoa!

MATT: All right, so at the start of your turn, on your first part of the round, I want you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: From this far away?

MATT: When you started your turn, you were in melee.

LIAM: Okay. So constitution?

MATT: Constitution saving throw.

LIAM: 16.

MATT: 16 total?

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: Okay. The gaze is upon you as you glance over and see the basilisk turn its head over its shoulder at you and hisses, and the eyes catch you. You can feel the magical effects take hold of your body for a moment. You back away and quickly close your eyes, and you can feel that it begin to reach over but you shake it off.

LIAM: Oh yeah! Gamble worked out, man!

MATT: So you do not have disadvantage in these attacks.

LIAM: Yeah, I know.

MATT: Minus five for each attack.

LIAM: First one, and advantage because I'm going before it, so the first one is 18.

MATT: 18 hits.

LIAM: Second is 14. And the third is 27.

MATT: First hits, last hits.

LIAM: Last hits?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Okay. First one gets sneak attack damage, and plus ten to both hits because of the sharpshooter.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Right. So, here we go.

LAURA: (singing) There can only be one gnome.

LIAM: I can't think! 33…. 43 for the first one.

SAM: 43?!

LIAM: No-no-no… 43 plus… 49 for the first one.

MATT: 49 points of damage.

LIAM: And the last one that hits is 19. Sharpshooter.

MATT: As you run backwards, at the basilisk glaring back at you, its toothy mouth opening and the breath out, you shake it off. Throw the daggers. One (impact) sticks into one eye, and the other just (impact) into the other, and it–

(cheering)

MARISHA: Damn!

LAURA: That was fast.

MATT: The snow nearby is spattered with this kind of dark-purple basilisk blood.

SAM: Ugh! My eyes…

LAURA: (gasp) Basilisk blood! We need to take the basilisk blood! Remember, that's super good…

MARISHA: Yes! Yup. Uh-huh.

MATT: You want to stay where you are?

LIAM: I will take another ten feet back away from it all. Bye, guys!

MATT: All right. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay!

MATT: Avert your gaze or… ?

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: Roll a constitution save.

MARISHA: Gamblers!

LIAM: (singing) You got to know when to hold 'em!

TALIESIN: That's a… (counts) 21 points.

MATT: 21?

TALIESIN: Constitution save.

SAM: Oh, it's a save! That's right!

MATT: What did you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a 14 plus seven.

MATT: That's great!

TALIESIN: I look at it in the eye.

MATT: You stare it down and it kind of (snarls).

TALIESIN: (barks) Bark it down.

MATT: Orthax has left his mark on you.

TALIESIN: I know. I cast Hex on it. I'm looking at the one she's Hunter's Marked, I cast Hex.

LAURA: Ooh, nice!

LIAM: Are you gonna bark all day, little doggie?

MATT: Same one that she's Hunter's Marked?

TALIESIN: Yeah. And I'm taking… I'm giving it a disadvantage on willpower ability checks.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take three shots with Sharpshooter.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: 12. Misses.

MATT: Misses, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, goodbye! Going to the good die, 12…. Better! 24.

MATT: Yeah, third shot hits. Go ahead and roll damage. With the Hex damage as well.

TALIESIN: Oh my god! I'm sucking. 22 points of damage.

MATT: 22 points of damage. So the first shot goes wide. Second shot goes wide again. For some reason, it's moving faster than you expected at this moment, missing your sights. The third shot manages to find the front of its nose and (shattering) the front of its skull shatters and it kind of crumbles to the ground.

TALIESIN: So, while shooting, I ran from that one tree all the way to the other one. That was a running shot, so…

MATT: Okay, so you run this way?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: It was a lot harder the last time.

TALIESIN: Behind the tree over there.

MATT: Over here? Because you can only get about that far with your running.

TALIESIN: About there.

MATT: Right there? Okay. Then you got behind there. That's fine. All right, that ends your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to avert my gaze, and go into an averted-gaze rage! (growls)

(laughter)

TRAVIS: And I would like to run at that little bastard right there.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: (Grog voice) I can't see you but I'm so angry!

TRAVIS: I'm using my Feral– no, that's wrong. I'm using my… what the fuck is it called?

TALIESIN: Slap Fight. Hair Pull.

TRAVIS: I've totally forgotten what's it called. What the fuck is it? Reckless Attack!

MATT: All right, there you go.

TRAVIS: Yes. So can I cancel out the disadvantage and get just a normal roll?

MATT: Yes, you would have a normal roll on this.

TRAVIS: Yes! And Great Weapon Master on these two strikes.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Shit! Nine.

MATT: (whoosh)

TRAVIS: (yells) (laughs) Shit! Nope.

LAURA: It's a bad luck night for Grog rolling!

MATT: You rush forward (sword swinging). You thought it was there, you're sure it was there, you heard it hiss. It's about two inches below where you swung.

TRAVIS: I'm so mad that I come out of my rage because I don't hit anything, right?

MATT: You don't have to hit it. You have to attack. There's a difference.

TRAVIS: Well, I've been swinging.

MATT: Yeah. (laughs) Ending Grog's turn, Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: How many are left? Two?

MATT: There are two left.

MARISHA: I am remembering what the basilisks did last time, and I've only done this once before, and am going to go…

MATT: Avert your gaze or not?

MARISHA: I'm looking down and transforming into a giant scorpion.

TALIESIN: Scorpions are fascinating.

SAM: How so? They don't have eyes, or something?

MARISHA: Yeah, they have blindsight.

SAM: Wait, what does that mean?

MARISHA: It means they don't use their eyes to see things. They have blindsight.

MATT: So Scanlan, as you're averting your gaze, you glance over as Keyleth goes (poof) into this giant scorpion, big tail, big pincers, black and red carapace. It's upsetting.

SAM: I'm scared.

MARISHA: (clicking pincers)

TALIESIN: That's really upsetting.

MARISHA: Where are they? The two are kind of in the middle there?

SAM: One's next to Grog.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to move in between them and I'm going to do a multiattack on both of those. I'll start on the one that Grog's not focusing on.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

MARISHA: So I have three attacks, two with my claws and one with my stinger.

MATT: Do it. Disadvantage on all attacks.

MARISHA: No, why?

MATT: Because you averted your gaze.

MARISHA: No, I didn't. I have blindsight as a scorpion.

MATT: Right, but at the start of your turn, before anything happens, is when it happens. Did you avert your gaze or not?

MARISHA: No, I turned into a scorpion.

MATT: Before that happened, at the start of your turn, did you avert your gaze or not?

LIAM: You said you averted your gaze.

MARISHA: I said I looked down, but once I'm a scorpion, I have blindsight.

MATT: Right, but the effect takes place before your transformation happens. So, yes or no, do you want to take the advantage or not?

MARISHA: Well, I said I looked down and turned into a scorpion to try and avoid it, so… I mean, I did, yeah.

MATT: All right, so disadvantage on the attacks.

MARISHA: That's the whole reason I did the scorpion.

SAM: But it's also looking cool.

LAURA: It's okay, from here on out, you're fine.

MARISHA: Miss. Six misses, for the first one. That's a three, it misses again. Nope, that's a two. Last one is an eight, plus a four… So that's 12. Probably still nothing.

MATT: Let me think here for a second. The scorpion has blindsight?

SAM: Starring Ashley Johnson! Blindsight!

TALIESIN: How did we not walk into that? How have we been sitting here and that didn't happen?

MARISHA: That legitimately made me spit my fucking coffee in my face.

MATT: No, you're right. I was thinking more in terms of it averting the magical power of the basilisk, but you could still avert and blindsight would allow you to still know where it is without having the disadvantage, so yes.

LIAM: Although with coffee in the eye, disadvantage is back.

MATT: This is true. I'll let you reroll those attacks.

MARISHA: All three? Okay, I wish I remembered them. Do you want me to reroll all three?

MATT: Just reroll all three. That's on me. I was thinking in wrong terms.

SAM: Matt, you're the worst.

MATT: I know. I know, I am the worst.

MARISHA: Jeez, I'm going to tweet at you later about this.

TALIESIN: Actually Matt, how blindsight works…

MATT: They've already been sent, I'm sure.

TALIESIN: I'm shutting the fuck up now.

MARISHA: These are just straight, they don't have disadvantage? First attack, 14.

MATT: 14 does not hit, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Second attack was a natural 18, so 22.

MATT: That does hit. And for the tail?

MARISHA: For the tail, 16.

MATT: 16 hits. That was my bad.

LIAM: Just a bunch of idiots dorking around, guys.

TALIESIN: There is coffee everywhere.

MARISHA: That's not very much. Four damage for the claw attack, and then for the sting, oh my god. Three damage, and they have to take a constitution saving throw.

MATT: 15, what's the DC?

MARISHA: 12.

MATT: Yeah, so it makes the save.

MARISHA: Fuck.

SAM: Yeah, Keyleth, good one!

MARISHA: Okay, they take 4d10 poison, and on a failed save, they take half as much.

MATT: Okay, so roll 4d10.

SAM: 4d10 is a lot!

LAURA: You should be a scorpion all the time!

MARISHA: Thanks guys! Wow, these are fucking horrifying rolls. Six, seven, eight, nine, plus seven is 16 points of poison damage.

MATT: Total, so that would be eight for half of it.

MARISHA: No, that is halved.

MATT: Nice, that's not bad at all. All right, so as your first claw streaks off its armor, the second one grabs hold and– hold on a second.

LIAM: I'm listening!

MATT: Thank you.

MARISHA: Sorry, it was eight damage.

TALIESIN: No, you did, because you did half the dice.

SAM: No, she did 4d10.

TALIESIN: She did 4d10?

MARISHA: Eight damage.

MATT: Eight damage, all right. All right, so as the first claw streaks across its armor, second one manages to grab and actually pince onto it, dealing some damage. As you're holding it there, the tail strikes inward, manages to pierce the outside of the scaly basilisk hide. Not as effective as it could've been, but still you see its body tense with the sudden pulse of poison in its system. That brings us to Pike! What's up?

ASHLEY: Okay. Since I can't see it, is there any way that I can Guiding Bolt one of the basilisks without hurting anybody?

MATT: Yeah, but for Guiding Bolt I believe it's a spell attack roll. Am I correct on that? Or does it automatically hit? I'm trying to remember which one it is. You guys have so many spells. Guiding Bolt, yeah. You can totally Guiding Bolt. You'll have disadvantage on the attack roll, but you can do it still.

LAURA: Do it, Pike!

ASHLEY: All right, let's do it!

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll with disadvantage on the attack.

SAM: Which one, the one near Grog or the one near scorpion-face?

ASHLEY: Which one would I not hurt anybody?

MATT: It's not so much you hurting anybody, you wouldn't hit anybody. It's about if you miss or not.

MARISHA: Grog and I can take it anyway.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: The one by Grog.

ASHLEY: Yeah, we'll do the one by Grog.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Oh, natural 20!

MATT: But it's with disadvantage, so you have to roll it again.

LIAM: Say it again.

TALIESIN: One in 20 chance.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: With that, unfortunately, as you're holding your eyes at bay–

SAM: Wait! You're inspired!

MATT: You can add the inspiration dice if you want to.

ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll add inspiration!

MATT: Okay, so roll a d10 and add that to the attack. 13 plus…

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. All right, seven. So 20.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on Guiding Bolt. So 4d6 radiant damage.

ASHLEY: Okay… 17!

MATT: Nice, all right! 17 points of radiant damage, and now there is a glowing hue of radiant light around it, so even though you're not looking at it, it's a pretty decent beacon, so it gives advantage on the next attack roll against it. Keep that in mind. Do you want to move at all or do you want to stay where you are, Pike?

ASHLEY: I'll stay, yeah, I'll stay.

MATT: All right. Now it is their turn. This one turns around and it's going to go ahead and make a bite attack against you, Keyleth, in scorpion form. That's a 17, plus six?

MARISHA: That hits.

MATT: All right. You take 11, plus three. 14 points of piercing damage, plus seven points of poison damage.

MARISHA: So that was 21?

TALIESIN: My brain is not doing numbers for some reason.

MARISHA: I know, and I keep looking at you.

MATT: Against you, Grog… It hits you regardless. It has advantage on you because you're averting your gaze, plus you had your reckless attack last round. It still only rolls a nine, plus six, so that's 14? 15 to hit.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: This one bites out towards you, and even though it's not there, because it's so bright, you see it shift, and you (boom) hit it in the front of its snout with the base of your sword. That brings us to the top of the initiative order. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Awesome. So it's the glowing one, I get advantage on the attack, because it's glowing?

MATT: You do, yes.

LAURA: I'm going to Hunter's Mark it.

MATT: Okay, so Hunter's Mark moves over.

LAURA: I'm going to avert my gaze, and roll a regular attack then? Since it's advantage?

MATT: Yes. It cancels out the disadvantage. So roll your first attack against it.

LAURA: That's 31.

MATT: 31 hits, yeah.

LAURA: 15 plus Hunter's Mark– Oh, I didn't Hunter's Mark it.

MATT and TALIESIN: Yeah, you did.

LAURA: Okay! What did I say, 15? 18.

MATT: 18, all right. So the first arrow strikes into it. It's still standing. It's looking a little hurt, but it's still standing.

LAURA: And then do I still get regular attacks? This is at disadvantage.

MATT: Disadvantage on the next one, yeah.

LAURA: 19?

MATT: Yeah. What's your total? 19 with disadvantage? That does hit, yep.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18, all right. This arrow, however, manages to strike through the top of the head, stapling the mouth shut, and it falls to the ground as its eyes slowly glaze over.

LAURA: I roar from up in the tree!

TALIESIN: Wait, do you let go of the broom to roar?

LAURA: No, I hold the broom in my hand!

MARISHA: Katy Perry style.

LAURA: Defying Gravity style.

LIAM: Holding it in your hand while you're flying on it?

LAURA: I'm not flying, I'm in a tree, dude.

MATT: Yeah, she's clutched up on top of a tree.

LIAM: I'm not looking at you.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Scanlan. Are you averting your gaze or not?

SAM: I'm not only averting my gaze, I'm looking towards the holes that it came out of, any of the holes that are near me.

MATT: There's two that are near you.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to go over to one and throw a Fireball down into it.

MATT: Okay! So, Scanlan, you walk over to the nearby holes behind you, where the one that snuck up behind you essentially came out of, aim down, and make sure you mark off these charges for each use of the wand.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: You (whoosh) release the beam, which gets about 15, 20 feet down before it blasts. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: Like putting yourself at the mouth of a cannon.

SAM: Seven.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: Roll 8d6. But take half damage, because it's mostly guarded and this is a circumstantial, at the outskirts of it, you're not taking the full brunt of the Fireball. However, you do get caught in the very edge of the backblast.

SAM: 29.

MATT: So you take half that. So you take 15 points of fire damage and are blown about five feet backward onto the ground. However, the ground shudders beneath all your feet, and the earth, the wet damp earth (squelch) sinks inward and the tunnel collapses. A few of the others (squelch) into it. There's still a couple more on the opposite side that are open. There's two more on this side that are open.

SAM: So the tunnels nearest me are not accessible anymore.

MATT: The two that were there and there both, the ground from it shuddering, collapsed inward, and now the mud has filled the space. There's these small sinkholes where they were.

SAM: All right. I'll spend the rest of my time in this round licking my wounds and studying the obelisk to see if I can see any other clues or anything on it.

MATT: Okay. You can see the text that she saw upon there, the Elvish script.

SAM: I can't read it, though.

MATT: But you see it there, and you see the triangle, a dark recessed triangle about that big that is in the base of it.

SAM: Is it a hole, or is it…?

MATT: It's a hole, but it's carved. It's not a perfect triangle, it starts as a triangle and slowly, as it recesses inward, comes to a point towards the back.

TALIESIN: Like a reverse pyramid.

SAM: I throw a snowball in it.

MATT: (impact)

SAM: It's safe, guys.

MATT: Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm off the map, but I want to try to come down towards the tree that I think Percy's at. He's between two trees. I'm going to avert my gaze, I'm going to look at the ground, come up around the side of that tree, and I'm listening for scorpion clacking and basilisk hissing, and I'm going to throw, dagger dagger dagger, in the direction of the basilisk I hear near scorpion claws clutching. Does that make sense?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

LIAM: All right. So this is at disadvantage because I'm looking at the ground. So first one is… first one is a 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

LIAM: And second one is… 19?

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third one is 16.

MATT: Hits. These are not with Sharpshooter?

LIAM: No, not at all. So we've got ten, plus nine, plus ten.

MATT: With that, your final dagger hits in the side of its rib cage, and the creature slumps over on the ground, letting out a horrible, gurgling hiss as it slowly dies amongst the mud.

LIAM: Daredevil.

LAURA: Was that all of them?

MATT: Currently, yes. Make a perception check.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, I roll with advantage, because I'm in the forest! Oh my god, I rolled a one twice in a fucking row. I see nothing.

SAM: Two natural ones?

MARISHA: We are fucking eating it on rolls tonight.

MATT: You're about to look down to inspect the vicinity. However, the tree is starting to bow forward and you (grunt) have to catch yourself, and you have no chance to even survey the territory.

TALIESIN: Pine sap gets in your eye.

LIAM: Laura Bailey dies on stream.

TRAVIS: I rolled a 16.

MATT: As you take a moment, the rage still in, you can hear the blood pumping in your ears, but you also hear the (hiss) rising hissing, what sounds like a distant echo coming up from a subterranean tunnel.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: Subterranean tunnel?

TRAVIS: Yeah. That Fireball, I think it might have pissed them off.

SAM: Good.

MARISHA: Can I use my blindsight tremor-sense to see if I can feel how far away they are?

MATT: You do. You feel beneath the ground. It's less of a tremor-sense, more being able to sense the vibrations in the air around you. You can tell that there is motion coming from underneath.

MARISHA: Sounds like a lot of them?

MATT: A few more.

ASHLEY: Fireball the other holes?

MARISHA: I'm going to drop my scorpion form.

SAM: Oh, god, Keyleth, you're horrible! Oh, wait, no, you've turned back to normal.

MARISHA: The things you say, Scanlan. I'm just going to do a Wall of Stone, flat over the area with the holes.

MATT: So from the stone chunks and portions of the shattered bodies that litter part of this garden, a giant stone wall forms around them and builds over it, sealing these holes. Eventually you hear a (knocking) (reptilian snarl) scraping sounds.

SAM: They're friendly!

LIAM: “I can't breathe down here!”

MATT: They're not budging it, they're just hitting it from underneath, and it's getting more frantic as time goes on.

SAM: How long can you hold that?

MARISHA: It'll last until they bust out of it, so we either keep moving or figure out where we're going from here.

SAM: What is this obelisk? It seems important if these things are protecting it.

LAURA: What does it say?

MARISHA: It has writing in Elvish in it.

SAM: What does it say?

MARISHA: It says, a name is earned, in Elvish.

SAM: Should we say a name to it and see what happens?

MATT: One of the stone parts of the wall begins to crack from underneath.

LAURA: Didn't Osysa say something about, her mate wouldn't say its name?

SAM: That's right, that's right.

LAURA: And this is a symbol of Ioun.

TRAVIS: Should we say Ioun in Elvish?

MARISHA: I say Ioun in Elvish.

MATT: You say it out into the air.

SAM: Why don't you say it into this triangle hole over here?

MARISHA: Ioun!

LAURA: Say knowledge in Elvish.

MARISHA: Knowledge!

SAM: Elvish is just English except muffled.

MARISHA: I'm going in the triangle hole!

MATT: A moment passes.

MARISHA: Osysa! Sphinx!

LAURA: A name is earned.

TRAVIS: What's in the hole?

MARISHA: What's in the hole?

SAM: I don't know what's in the hole. Nothing.

MATT: A basilisk face bursts through the stone wall.

SAM: Whack-a-Mole! Grog! Whack-a-Mole!

TRAVIS: Can I run over and play golf?

MATT: Yeah. Do you want to avert your gaze or not?

TRAVIS: Nah.

MATT: All right, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Shite.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Without an issue, the eyes find yours and you just grin as you bring… what kind of attacks do you want to do?

TRAVIS: Reckless and Great Weapon Master.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: That's a natural 20. I'll take that one on the first one.

MATT: Okay, and the other one?

TRAVIS: 19. 20.

MATT: Both hit. The first is a critical. This would be over here.

TRAVIS: 31?

MATT: Did you roll the… Is that times two?

TRAVIS: No, that's just the attack.

LIAM: It's critical.

MATT: Before you add your modifier.

TRAVIS: Before the modifier? It was 12 before the modifier.

MATT: So 24 plus the modifier.

TRAVIS: Which is 32, plus ten is 42.

MATT: 42. Did you roll the additional brutal critical rolls?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: So roll 4d6 on top of that, because of your brutal critical. I think it is.

LIAM: I think we can all agree it's the jelly of the month club at this point.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: For a grand total of…

SAM: 59?

LAURA: Do you double those ones though, because it's the dice?

TRAVIS: That's just the first hit.

MATT: Yeah, all right. 59 points of damage. You square up.

TRAVIS: Happy Gilmore-style.

MATT: You strike down with the blade at an angle, using the stone holding it in place like an executioner's block, and the blade scrapes against the stone as you strike, finding itself embedding about seven to eight inches into the throat of the basilisk as its head's protruding out. Immediately, blood begins to pour out of its side, and it's gurgling at its attempt to try and push through. You wedge the blade out. Go for your next strike. You already rolled your attack, which was a 19, so roll damage on that one.

TRAVIS: Seven, 12, 20, 30, on the second one.

LIAM: Oh, that's all?

MATT: With the second strike, you (whoosh) clean slice. The head (splat) onto the stonework there, the body still wedging the hole shut. The neck is a clean cut, and starts gouting blood out.

TRAVIS: I dip the tip of the sword into the little well and I pick up the head.

MATT: Which, by the way, both saving throws were failed, so you gain another plus two to strength.

SAM: Wow, you're catching up to Pike!

LAURA: Ow! Nothing.

TALIESIN: Did you cut yourself on your cup?

LAURA: No, I just hit my tooth.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Oh, I hate that.

MATT: All right, so you can feel the impact still attempting from beneath growing more and more frantic.

MARISHA: I say, earned!

ASHLEY: Can I go collect some of the (stuttering) basilisk– I can't say that. Can I get some of the blood and collect it?

MATT: Sure. And you notice that the longer it stays out there, the blood itself is beginning to freeze in the general atmosphere and get slushy.

LAURA: We can get some and put it in my bag. It keeps things good.

ASHLEY: Can I stab the carcass then in another area and get some fresh in the body?

MATT: Yeah, there's plenty of carcasses of basilisks around. As they're inspecting, and you still feel the impacts from underneath the stone wall from the other tunnel, you manage to gather, we'll say two small vials of basilisk blood.

ASHLEY: Vex!

TRAVIS: Yeah, put it in Vex's little refrigerator Bag of Holding.

MATT: Okay. The slamming on the other side of the stone wall slowly subsides until silence comes.

MARISHA: Did they give up?

TRAVIS: Has anybody put their hand in the hole yet?

LAURA: It's all you, Grog.

TRAVIS: All right, I put my hand in the hole.

MATT: Where the one you killed is?

TRAVIS: No, the triangle.

MATT: Okay. So you take your hand and you place it inside this empty recess in the obelisk. It reaches in, and the shadow of the obelisk completely takes it to the wrist. Nothing happens.

SAM: I'm going to take my Ioun Stone and shove it in the hole.

MATT: Okay. You take the Ioun Stone and place it in the hole, and it has a soft light that it gives off naturally from the magical enchantment, and it lights the inside of the dark recess, and as you place it inside, the top of the obelisk begins to glow ever-so-faintly, like a little beacon. The very top of the stone glows a matching color to your stone.

MARISHA: A matching color?

MATT: Yeah. I need you all to make a perception check.

SAM: 17.

MARISHA: 14.

LIAM: 16.

TRAVIS: 19!

LAURA: 25.

TALIESIN: 11.

SAM: Ashley Blindsight?

ASHLEY: 16!

MATT: Okay. You catch a little bit of this, Grog, and you perk up as you notice, and you see immediately. There is a matching beacon, a faint glow that appears to be streaking down the mountainside in the distance. It's a little bit off-center from the direct south direction that you're facing, but there is a slight marker, very faintly visible on the mountain range, just visible over the treetops.

LAURA: I drop a pin in that, and I tell Keyleth, now you can use that thing!

MARISHA: I hold up the Hunk of Quall.

LAURA: No, I mean your spell, Keyleth. Fastest way to get to this point!

MARISHA: I didn't bring it because everyone said not to learn that spell.

SAM: That was today, wasn't it?

LAURA: I thought you already learned it.

MARISHA: He said to learn something else because it wasn't going to be useful.

LAURA: No, he said just don't use that thing!

MARISHA: No, you said to learn something, it was at the beginning of the day!

SAM: You can't unlearn things! It's all good.

LAURA: It's okay, it's okay. I can see it.

MATT: You had it already memorized when you guys got to the edge of the forest, I'm pretty sure.

MARISHA: Okay. I thought you were saying to pick something else because it wouldn't be handy. But I take it back, and I'll use it now if you want.

TALIESIN: No, we're good. We're good.

MARISHA: I'm so confused.

MATT: Up to you.

MARISHA: Is it me tonight?

TALIESIN: It is a really weird pot of coffee. It's not just you.

MARISHA: Do I need sleep? What am I missing?

MATT: It's all good.

MARISHA: I can keep it.

TRAVIS: Just lick your finger and stick it in the wind.

LAURA: Just use the spell and pretend that you never unlearned it.

MARISHA: I never unlearned it! It's been there the whole time! I didn't use it. It's not like I used a 6th-level spell. Look, guys! Find the Path! That way!

MATT: Okay. So what is it that you're focusing on for the spell?

MARISHA: That beam of light!

LAURA: That I pointed out to her.

MARISHA: That she pointed out. Am I doing this wrong?

MATT: No, you're not doing it wrong! You cast the spell and, concentrating on the source of this beacon, you feel the direction that would pull you the best way to travel towards that beacon is to travel towards that beacon.

LIAM: Look, you're just doing what the bossy half-elf told you to do. Just go with it.

MARISHA: What, that one?

LIAM: That's the only bossy half-elf here.

SAM: DM, can I experiment and take away, if I take away my Ioun Stone, does the light fade?

MATT: As you pull the Ioun Stone out of it, the beacon does fade, yes. But you have a direction.

MARISHA: I have it marked now. I have a pin in it. Right, that counts?

MATT: Right. No matter where you travel in this place, you will have a directional position towards that beacon.

LAURA: See, there we go.

MARISHA: Fucking handy, that one is.

TRAVIS: Yep, redemption.

MARISHA: Totally a great 6th-level spell I'm going to use all the time going forward.

LIAM: Oh, for fuck's sake. Here we go, people. Here we go. And we're moving.

TRAVIS: We take off at a jog now!

SAM: Wait, before we leave, is there anything else we need to do here? Do we need to go down into the tunnels? Do we need to piss on the obelisk? Do we want to do anything?

LIAM: You should piss on the obelisk just to be sure.

TALIESIN: You should lick it, too, after you piss on it.

TRAVIS: Let's not.

SAM: Let's go.

MATT: Are you guys leaving?

SAM: Wait, we need some basilisk blood and stuff!

LAURA: We got some!

MATT: You're standing amongst the obelisk, a long series of mud with a bunch of mostly together stone statues of people and pieces of people around.

TRAVIS: Do we want to check the other building ruins? We didn't check those at all. There's a whole corner of a building over there.

LAURA: Sure.

TRAVIS: Well, go check it!

LAURA: I go look at it.

LIAM: Half-elves look at the building structure.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: What the hot holy fuck.

LIAM: 26.

TALIESIN: It says it was forged by dwarves, that's all I can understand.

LAURA: Investigation?

MATT: Investigation, yeah.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19, all right. You guys both start gathering around the sides of the ruin. Glancing about the outside, it looks like at one point it was a smaller structure, probably part of the construction, like this here was a satellite place of worship for Ioun, like a beacon as part of a journey. But nothing about it catches your eyes. As you're stepping over the remnants of the stone individuals on the ground, you catch your eye on one of the individuals you see, lying partially submerged in the snow and mud. You glance down and see two arms that are out like this, although the right arm from the elbow down is missing. It's broken off in stone. Both are reaching out. A young human male, shortish brown hair, spectacles at the end of his nose, thin body and tucked-in, nice buttoned shirt. Slacks. This is Tyriok, the mapmaker.

LIAM: The mapmaker?

TALIESIN: You're a terrible person.

LAURA: No, why would you do that, Matthew?

MATT: I didn't do this! He was traveling the world to take notes, people!

LIAM: I take… Wait! Everybody shush! I look at him for a moment and then I leave him, and I don't tell anyone else.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: We have Pike with us!

LIAM: I don't tell anyone else. Pike didn't see him. His arm is broken off! You don't fucking know he exists. He's gone.

ASHLEY: But, but!

LAURA: That's terrible!

TALIESIN: Why don't you two just write a sequel to Batman/Superman while you're at it? Just destroy everything. I don't care anymore.

LAURA: We could heal him!

MATT: You don't know. Eventually, after you guys do a perusal of the ruins, you find your way back to the party and you guys continue traveling which way, towards the beacon?

LAURA: Towards the beacon!

MARISHA: I've got it in my head now.

LIAM: Wait, wait, wait, I go to Pike. I go to Pike. Pike.

ASHLEY: Yeah? Hi, Vax!

LIAM: Do you remember that mapmaker? Were you with us? So much shit has happened. Do you remember Tyriok the mapmaker?

ASHLEY: I don't think I was with you.

LIAM: There's a man over there. His arm is gone. Can you fix stoning? Can you fix a man who's been turned to stone?

ASHLEY: I can try. Remember one time we fixed Vex, when she was turned to stone, the last time we fought the basilisks.

LIAM: Two years ago, yeah. What did we do?

ASHLEY: We covered her in basilisk blood.

LIAM: I need to take a walk. Could you do that? Could you do that?

ASHLEY: Sure. Which stone is he?

LIAM: Look over there by that tree there. Do you see him? There's two hands pointing towards the sky.

SAM: One hand.

LIAM: Two.

ASHLEY: One and a half. All right, can I head over there?

MATT: You walk over there, and you do see a number of broken body parts all turned to stone in various states of disuse and crumbling. You do see a young man who's caught with his arms out, one broken off at the elbow, staring up, glasses at the end of his nose, looking both frightened and frozen in a moment of complete unaware danger.

ASHLEY: Okay. Can I try covering him in some of the basilisk's blood?

MATT: Sure. You take one of the vials that you collected and take the basilisk blood and pour it over the statue. The blood congeals and spills over, crystallizing slowly as the ice cold gets to it. It doesn't seem to have an effect.

ASHLEY: It's been too long.

MATT: You gather, based on the last time it happened, the blood needs to be applied within a short period of time after the person turns to stone. Do you have anything else that might help?

ASHLEY: Probably Greater Restoration.

MATT: Do you have that prepared?

ASHLEY: I do.

MATT: You concentrate, grasping the symbol of Sarenrae around your neck and touch your hand out. The warm glow of Sarenrae's divine energy transferring into the stone form. The form glows with energy, and the glow subsides and fades, the stone texture of his body beginning to slowly soften, and the color returning to his skin, and for a moment the head seems to shake, and the eyes clarify, and a voice begins to peek through these previously frozen vocal cords. “I mean no–” (screams) As all of a sudden his arm begins to spray gouts of blood.

TRAVIS: I got it! I got it! I start catching it with the sword.

MATT: (stuttering) He turns to you, and sprays right across your face.

TRAVIS: Good! Splash on! Yes!

MATT: “Help! Help me!”

ASHLEY: I grab his arm and Cure Wounds! I don't know if that's a really good move.

MATT: Go ahead and heal him up a bit.

ASHLEY: Can I try to reattach his arm?

MATT: You gather that might have been something to do before you had restored him.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: However, go ahead and heal for Cure Wounds. Roll a d8 plus five.

TRAVIS: That's kind of fucking hilarious.

ASHLEY: 5d8 plus five?

MATT: Depending on what level you want to use on him. A level one is 1d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: Oh, God, okay. I feel like I'm using all this, but I don't know. Okay, so let's do level five.

MATT: Level five. All right, go for it. 5d8 plus five.

TALIESIN: Not our finest hour. Pretty reasonable hour, but it's definitely not the finest. We brought most of a mapmaker back.

MATT: So how much is that?

ASHLEY: 29.

MATT: 29, okay. As you reach out and grasp the edge of his bleeding stump…

ASHLEY: Stop moving!

MATT: “I just–” (yelps) The warmth causes the pain to fade and he calms for a second. “Oh. Sorry.” He looks down as the wound has stopped bleeding, skin is scabbed over, and it looks like it's now in a place where it's no longer an open wound. It is mostly healed over, though he is now missing part of his arm.

LAURA: Can you regrow his little arm like you regrew my brother's little nubbin of a toe?

MATT: This is a bit beyond your healing capabilities.

TRAVIS: C'mon, Deadpool hand.

MATT: At which point he goes, “Thank you, small one. I–” And he goes to reach up for his glasses and… Other hand.

LAURA: Oh, we're terrible.

TALIESIN: Technically saved seven-eighths of a mapmaker.

MATT: He looks around at the rest of you. “Oh! Hello, it's been a while. We haven't… Well, I seem to have gotten myself in a bit of a predicament.”

SAM: What happened?

MATT: “Well, I was… Well, I had two escorts. And I had been making my way through most of Tal'Dorei, and had gotten as far as this region, and… That's all I remember.”

LAURA: Basilisks? Big lizard creatures?

MATT: “Yes. Very scary. I tried to run, and that's all I remember.”

LAURA: Was it just the three of you, then? Not a large group of people?

MATT: “No, just three of us.”

ASHLEY: What were you doing over here?

MATT: “I was trying to finish this portion of the map. If I… Ah!” And he goes over and reaches through some of the snow and pulls up a large stone bag that is currently still attached to his broken arm.

TALIESIN: No!

MATT: “Um. Is this…?”

TRAVIS: Nope! No, no, that's just part of a– It was a statue garden, it's not a big deal. It's just a fragment.

MATT: “All right. Well, these were my maps.”

SAM: Are they stone?

MATT: They are stone, currently.

LAURA: Can we– Oh, no.

TRAVIS: Is he on the ground still?

MATT: No, he's standing. “Oh boy.” He takes his glasses off and goes to rub them into his shirt and… does it with one hand and puts them back on.

ASHLEY: Oh, buddy.

LAURA: I feel terrible.

MATT: “Well.”

TALIESIN: It's like a one-legged duck walking around.

MATT: “What do I do?”

TRAVIS: Which hand does he have, his left?

MATT: He has his left hand.

TRAVIS: Are you right-handed?

MATT: “I'm kind of ambidextrous.”

TRAVIS: Thank gods for that.

LAURA: That's good, that's good. Well…

TALIESIN: A lot's happened.

MATT: There's shock on his face. He still hasn't quite taken in all of this stuff.

SAM: Everything is going to be okay.

MARISHA: Well, you have a great story now.

TALIESIN: And a period of adjustment.

MATT: “This is very true. This is a valid point.”

TALIESIN: We should send him back to the encampment.

LAURA: It's like a two-day walk.

SAM: These escorts you had with you who were also turned to stone, were they important to you? Were they friends of yours?

MATT: “I hired them as part of this endeavor. They were nice fellows. Hold on a second.” He starts walking off and starts rummaging through the pieces of stone and various people, picking up heads. “No. Well, that's Alex. Golly, I don't… I don't know where Gerald is, but… Can I come with you for now?”

LAURA: Well, you're more than– Actually–

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: He's rather smart, isn't he?

SAM: He has knowledge of the area.

TALIESIN: That actually could be useful.

LAURA: Here's the thing. It's very dangerous, dear, and it's quite possible you might be turned into stone again.

MATT: “I don't want that.”

LAURA: No, we don't want that for you, either.

TRAVIS: Also eaten alive, burned, shot, stabbed–

LAURA: Straight-up killed.

TRAVIS: – pulled apart, maimed–

LAURA: Beheaded.

TRAVIS: – Lacerated.

LAURA: All options.

TRAVIS: But that's just in the mornings.

LAURA: But you're more than welcome to join us, for a short amount of time. Or you can head back to a camp that's about a day and a half away.

MATT: “All right. Whereabouts are you going?”

TRAVIS: We're heading up the mountain.

MATT: I'll head for the camp.

TRAVIS: Are you sure? We could always use you as a decoy– I mean, as an aid.

MATT: “I'm good. I'm all right. Thank you, though. I appreciate the offer. I have a lot to think about.”

MARISHA: I could…

TALIESIN: Well, we'll run into him when we get back.

TRAVIS: Do you need a hand finding your way to the encampment?

SAM: Oh, Grog.

TALIESIN: Not cool.

LIAM: Groan.

MATT: He starts walking northward, basically trailing past the path where you guys walked from.

LAURA: I feel like we should help him or something.

LIAM: Not bad enough to actually do it, though, right?

MARISHA: I have Conjure Woodland Beings in my back pocket today, so I could conjure you a little posse to escort you.

LAURA: That would be good!

LIAM: Have some squirrels, buddy.

MARISHA: Have a little posse.

MATT: What's the duration on that one?

MARISHA: I don't know. That's something else that I haven't done, ever.

SAM: Untested high-level spell? Do it!

MARISHA: That always works so well.

MATT: It's an hour of concentration.

TRAVIS: Is this as far as you got, or did you make it up the mountain previously?

MATT: “I was cresting through the base of the mountain, and made it most of the way down the Stormcrest and was heading back through the Frostweald.”

TRAVIS: Oh, you've been up there already?

LAURA: You've been to the base of the Stormcrest Mountains!

MATT: “I was kind of along the side. We were trying to make our way through the central portion of the mountain pass so we could keep track of the division of topography on both top and bottom.”

TRAVIS: Oh, man. Why you didn't say so? We could really use your help here.

LAURA: Actually, did you see something similar to this obelisk at the base of the mountain?

MATT: “Uh…” He looks back and thinks to himself. “Not quite like this, though, but there are a number of cavern entrances that litter various portions of the base of the mountain.”

TRAVIS: Did you go in any of them?

MATT: “No, see, I was afraid those would be too dangerous. So I went into the forest.”

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: “Anyway.”

TRAVIS: Well, look, you don't really seem to have a lot on you. Why don't you join us for just a little bit, to the areas that he knows, and then we'll send you back on your way, maybe with a bit of ale, a little bit of food? Maybe a weapon?

MATT: “That would be fantastic. And… Thank you. I realize now that if you hadn't come by, I probably would have been there forever.”

LAURA: Yes, well, we're sorry about the arm, dear.

MATT: “There are worse things. And I can retrain to write with this arm. It's totally fine.”

SAM: Yes. You're lucky to be alive, and now you're going on an adventure with us. Hey, who has two thumbs and is really excited? You and me, both doing this.

MATT: You know what, make a charisma check.

TALIESIN: You worry me.

SAM: Charisma?

MATT: Yeah, add your plus five charisma bonus.

SAM: 20.

MATT: 20? As you do that, he… “Yeah. You're right! You're right. I'm thankful to be alive today, and it's because of you guys.”

LIAM: Technically true.

MATT: “Let's travel!”

TRAVIS: Well, listen, I'll walk with you. Lead the way.

MATT: “All right, so where are you going? Because this place was dangerous, and that place is dangerous, and we don't want to go that way.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, Vex'ahlia will point where we're headed.

LAURA: Why don't you want to go that way? Have you seen orcs in this wood?

MATT: He points and says, “There's a lot of them that way. We came through here to avoid them, and that's when this all happened.”

LAURA: Ooh. Actually, we should probably take care of the orcs.

TALIESIN: Get the orcs really quick, and then we can send him back with the refugees from there.

MARISHA: We did say we were going to take care of the orcs.

LAURA: Yes, we did.

MARISHA: We did promise that.

LAURA: What do you say, Grog? Would you like to kill some orc?

TRAVIS: Do you always ask questions to which you know the answer already?

LAURA: Would you like to stay here while we fight the orcs, or could you walk us towards them and stay hidden?

MATT: “I don't want to stay here.”

LAURA: Then you come with us, and then you stay very, very hidden.

MATT: “I can do that. I can definitely do that.”

TALIESIN: When it's time, he can hide with the bear. Then a bear will be hiding with a mapmaker, or most of a mapmaker.

SAM: We'll be fine. Let's go.

MATT: “All right.”

LIAM: While all of that happened, for the last ten minutes, can I stealth away for a little bit?

MATT: Sure. Roll a stealth check.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: Okay. Based on passive perception, nobody notices your exit.

LIAM: I don't want to go that far, I want to go so I can still hear all this bullshit behind me, and find a quiet spot… I know you can hear me. I'm going to need… I'm going to need more than nightmares. A deal has been struck, and I will honor it. I need to understand what this is. Any time.

MATT: In that moment, the white snow suddenly flashes to dark, and it's like you were struck blind. You gasp instinctually as your vision goes dark, nothing, and you see come from the shadow, another flash, another vision. It's of Vasselheim. Another flash. You look out and you can see there's one large, darkened structure that you have not visited but passed by on the southeastern side of Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Yeah! Temple! Temple of the Raven Queen.

MATT: The actual name of this, and you've heard it in passing before, when you were given your initial pass over of the… I'm trying to find the specific name here so I don't mess it up. It's in here somewhere. You see this dark, obsidian structure that is ridged, almost like an even rib cage along each side. It is ominous, and it stuck out in the middle of the city because, amongst the rest of the jovial atmosphere, it loomed over the Amaranthine Oubliette. But this was the central temple to the Raven Queen. You then flash once again, in a long chamber, and you see veils, dark veils passing by, one after another, after another. Another flash forward, and you see a chamber with dark brown, smooth floors. You see gold trim along large pillars that reach up to a dome-type stained glass ceiling of amber colors and white, and in the center of this chamber you see what appears to be a pool of still, crimson liquid. You see the crimson liquid shift, and a form rises up out of it. An arm rises up and beckons a finger. Your vision goes to black, and you're back in the forest.

LIAM: Fuck. Not exactly what I was talking about. At some point, a little bit of clarification. Congratulations, you're creepy as fuck. We'll work it out. I head back to the group.

SAM: Good talk.

MATT: As you guys gather yourselves, your new companion, and start heading in the direction that he ushered you within the Frostweald, towards where supposedly these orcs have holed up and made their camp, you know that the good news is, you probably have the element of surprise in this, but you're not entirely sure what it is you're in for when you get there. That's where I'll end today's session.

(groaning)

LAURA: That was a lot of sidetracks on this particular adventure.

MATT: That's all right. Sidetracks make it fun.

TALIESIN: Nothing wrong with sidetrack.

LIAM: Heebie-jeebies.

LAURA: Oh, man, she's creepy!

ASHLEY: Creepy as fuck!

LAURA: Creepy as fuck!

SAM: Hey, Pike, good job tonight, lady!

TRAVIS: Hey, Pikey!

SAM: You brought a guy back to life!

LAURA: 19 strength, say what!

SAM: You're super strong!

ASHLEY: I'm a tank.

TRAVIS: Tank up in this motherfucker.

LIAM: (bang! bang! bang!)

ASHLEY: It feels so good to be back.

MATT: I know. Come back to us soon! Physically!

LAURA: Yes, please!

ASHLEY: Yes, very soon! A few more weeks, a few more weeks.

TRAVIS: She's coming, she's coming.

LIAM: We need our Pike.

MATT: All right, guys. We'll pick this up next Thursday! Thank you for coming and watching us play around, make believe on the Internet.

SAM: Is next week any– It's not our 50th episode?

LIAM: It's our 49th!

LAURA: Next week is our 49th, two weeks from now is our 50th.

MATT: 21st is our 50th episode.

SAM: Last time in our 40s.

MARISHA: Got to enjoy it now.

TRAVIS: And don't miss the 50th.

MATT: Don't miss the 50th, it's going to be fun.

LAURA: May be a couple surprises in store.

MATT: We'll see.

TRAVIS: Nothing. Just us.

MATT: I don't know where we'll be in the story, because that's definitely based on whatever you guys do. But we'll have some fun things here.

LIAM: Shopping episode.

MATT: Yep. But yeah, thank you guys so much! See you next Thursday. Those of you in Pittsburgh, we'll see you this weekend. Is it Thursday yet?

MATT: Hello, everyone! And welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons, and occasionally curse at me before the stream. You ass. Every time. You guys have caught him a few times. Anyway, welcome to tonight's game. Ashley Johnson unfortunately cannot join us this evening. She's finishing up stuff at Blindspot, but we hope to have her back next week.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Ashley Johnson! Blindspot!

LIAM: Come back, Shane!

MATT: Fingers crossed on that one. Sam Riegel also will be here a little late– more than usual late. Travis will be taking over Scanlan until he arrives.

LAURA: What if you kill him? What if he dies while you're–

MATT: I know you were kidding, but now you have to.

TRAVIS: There are better ways to go. Worse ways. Whatever.

MATT: We'll see what transpires by the time he gets here. Hopefully he'll have a character left.

TALIESIN: You can do a limerick. It'll be exciting.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: All right, so before we get started, we're going to go ahead and run through our announcements, so we can hop right in. We've got a fun game ready for you guys tonight. First and foremost, next Monday, at 7:00pm, here on Geek and Sundry's Twitch stream, taking over the spot for No Survivors, we'll be running a Critical Role one shot. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder, where our campaign actually started. A one-shot evening with a host of great players. Taliesin and Marisha will be joining us on that–

(cheering)

MATT: Way to prove me wrong!

LAURA: What happened?

LIAM: No singing Travis?

TRAVIS: He must have heard on Twitch and came running.

SAM: Yeah, that can't happen. No way.

MATT: That's amazing. All right. Well, welcome!

TRAVIS: (laughs) Man, I didn't get to masturbate in public.

MATT: Oh, night's still young, Travis.

LAURA: There's always tomorrow, darling.

LIAM: You think Grog is above that?

MATT: Remember, Twitch is live. That's not going to happen. So yeah!

SAM: Oh shit, it's in my car.

MATT: What happened?

TALIESIN: What do you need, what do you need?

SAM: It's okay. I'm good.

LIAM: You're going to wing it? You remember your numbers? Yeah, go get it, we're doing announcements.

SAM: It's literally in my other car.

MATT: I can text you your character sheet.

SAM: But I have my PDF.

MATT: You have your PDF, you're good. Okay, so. I think–

TALIESIN: Pathfinder!

MATT: Actually, if I recall, I think I may have left that behind as well. I made an extra copy of your character.

TALIESIN: I've made an extra copy of your character.

MATT: There you go. He got this. Perfect. Next Monday, 7:00pm-10:00pm, possibly a little over that, we'll see. You know how these sessions go. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder. Taliesin and Marisha will be playing, as well as Ivan Van Norman, as he is allowing us to take his spot for No Survivors, he will be a player in that game, as well as two special guests. We'll have Ashly Burch, the wonderful, talented, amazing Ashly Burch will be playing, as well as the incredible Phil Lamarr. That'll be our troop of five players.

TRAVIS: Justice League, Futurama, Pulp Fiction.

LAURA: Tales from the Borderlands?

MATT: Yup. Ashly Burch, who's currently up for a BAFTA as well. 'Cause apparently if your name's Ashley, you get nominated for a BAFTA.

LAURA: The BAFTAs already happened. She didn't.

MATT: But she was nominated!

TALIESIN: BAFTA nominee Ashly Burch.

MATT: Exactly.

LIAM: She's also a delightful knucklehead, so BAFTA aside.

MATT: She's awesome people. Love her to death and we're excited to have her on. But yeah, so that'll be next Monday, 7:00pm Pacific here. Come watch, it'll be fun! It'll be a little different than the usual stuff here. Let's see. Next up, if my phone would listen, there we go. Next week, next Thursday is our 50th episode. Crazy.

TRAVIS: Explosion. Brain matter everywhere.

MATT: It's been crazy that we've gotten to a 50th episode point, so it'll be a loose celebration. We'll have a game, couple surprises, and we'll be finishing it off with a grand Critmas finale for this year until we get in the holidays.

LAURA: It's all happening that night?

MATT: We don't have a choice.

LAURA: Longest night ever!

MARISHA and MATT: Longest night ever!

MATT: We were going to try and find another night maybe to do Critmas, but their scheduling won't allow it.

LIAM: Cheers to a seven-hour stream.

TALIESIN: Oh god, I'm going to die.

MATT: They're prepping to try and make it transition as fast as possible so we aren't here until 4:00am.

MARISHA: And by they're you mean us?

MATT: Yes. Come next week for an awesome spectacular! It'll be great! You'll enjoy it.

LAURA: Spectacular, spectacular.

MATT: Good. Marisha, you want to talk about Hector's thing?

MARISHA: Hector Navarro, aka @Hectorisfunny on Twitter, is the next host up for Signal Boost, and his first episode happened this Tuesday and he's fucking hilarious. You have to watch him.

TRAVIS: He is, it's great.

MARISHA: He's really funny. And this coming up episode might be one of my favorite ones.

MATT: Yeah, the opening joke for this next episode made me laugh out loud on the ground for five minutes.

MARISHA: Yes, that's a true story.

LAURA: Don't build it up too much. Now they'll be expecting it, Matt.

MATT: It's the best thing you've ever seen. You will die it's so funny!

MARISHA: Anyway, give him love. Go watch it. It's funny. It's very funny. And he has great things that he boosts.

MATT: Exactly. Let's see. Also, if you guys haven't seen it, we did a fun one-shot game with Kinda Funny, with Greg Miller and their crew up in San Francisco and the episodes have been going up this week, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, finishing with today, so if you want to go check it out, it's a ridiculous two-hour game we played, broken up over four episodes. I think the full episode goes up standalone tomorrow, but it's a lot of fun. We had Travis, Laura and Marisha all playing in that game and–

LAURA: Different characters. We weren't our regular characters, but equally fun, I thought.

MATT: Yeah. Who'd you play?

LAURA: I played Jester, a tiefling cleric.

MATT: Yes, it was delightful. Marisha, what'd you play?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: What was my character's name?

TRAVIS: Wow!

LAURA: You were a dwarf paladin.

MARISHA: I know, but what was my character's name?

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: I don't remember.

MATT: I think it was Scottish McSweedsen. Accent McDialect.

LAURA: Ooh, hello!

MARISHA: Look, a lot's happened in a couple weeks, okay? I've moved, I've had a change of scenery–

MATT: It's true. But yeah, that's fun. Travis, you got to play an Order of the Lycan Blood Hunter.

TRAVIS: I did. McLaren von Tosscobble. Oh, it was fun. He has secrets. And bourbon. He had lots of bourbon.

MATT: So much bourbon. We may have been drinking during that game, I don't know. But go check it out if you haven't. It was a lot of fun. Sam, you had an announcement you wanted to make?

SAM: I play Zedd in the Ratchet and Clank game that just came out.

LIAM: It's a good game.

SAM: It's a good game, it's getting good reviews! I haven't seen what I did in it, but I assume it's nerdy.

MATT: Good man. Fantastical. Liam–

LIAM: Hey man, I know you guys all love Wyrmwood Gaming, but like this free– the shipping is killing me. Well the good news is, if you use the code “critrole” you don't have to pay the shipping, you just pay the cost for the box and they send it to you.

LAURA: Oh. These glorious boxes?

LIAM: These boxes by Wyrmwood Gaming. The code again is “critrole”. Not only that, but they have a Kickstarter going on. They are now selling, or they're kickstarting their Sentinel deck box, which looks like this.

MARISHA: Oh wait, I haven't seen this yet!

LAURA: So wait, this is a regular Sentinel deck box.

LIAM: This is a regular. Now, for fans of the show, you can get our logo etched into any of the boxes at any tier.

LAURA: This is another box. This one has our logo etched into it.

TALIESIN: What does it say at the bottom there?

TRAVIS: You can do a rubbing on the front.

LAURA: It says “How do you want to do this?”

LIAM: But again, if you want to go full Gilmore, we have the Masterworks box, which is freaking gorgeous. The dice go in here, the Bluetooth is hidden in there.

SAM: Bluetooth?!

LIAM: You'll never lose your shit. And then all your cards go there.

SAM: Put your weed in there.

TALIESIN: You're not supposed to just come out and say it.

TRAVIS: Can I do a sleight of hand roll?

LIAM: Lastly, if you go over to their Facebook page right now for Wyrmwood Gaming, they're doing a contest. They're giving away one of these mofos. So all the rules for how the contest works are there. And you can get one of these for looking at their Facebook page.

LAURA: Sweet.

LIAM: Critrole!

LAURA: Crit. Role!

MATT: And last but not least, as the subscriber count continues, we're going to be doing giveaways. We actually got a great gift from Midnight Syndicate, who, those of you who may have paid attention, created a lot of the music that I use during our games. They're a phenomenal group that has incredible tabletop gaming-centric music for all sorts: fantasy, horror, Lovecraft– they have an incredible array of tracks and they sent us a bunch of CDs to give out to you guys. So we are now folding these delightful Midnight Syndicate CDs in as part of the giveaway as well. What's the milestone we're hitting for subscribers?

CREW: I think it's 16,800?

MATT: So 16,800. When we hit that tonight, we'll be giving away the next giveaway, which will include this as well as art posters, and all the other good stuff we give away as part of our subscriber giveaways, so that's cool. Thank you, Midnight Syndicate, you guys are awesome. Check out their stuff on the internet for your own home games. It's brilliant stuff. All righty! So, without further ado, let's get back into the realm of Exandria.

TALIESIN: When we last left off, we were in a cardboard box.

MATT: Yes. In Hobotown, USA.

MARISHA: I knew this day would come.
Part I

MATT: So last we left off, Vox Machina, having traversed many places in the world in hopes of finding a way to expel or destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collective of four chromatic dragons that together managed to destroy large bastions of society on the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond in Wildemount. Thordak, the Cinder King, the seeming leader of their group, currently sits in the center of the partially destroyed city of Emon. The other dragons have scattered about and claimed their own territories. From this, the party has discovered the existence of these legendary magical items, referred to as the Vestiges of Divergence, that existed from wars long past. They were carried on from generation to generation that contain power that may be sufficient to defeat these creatures. You were sent to seek out the nameless sphinx that exists somewhere near the Frostweald. Weeld-weld. It's pronounced so many different ways–

SAM: Which is it? Which is it?

MATT: It can be any of them, it's a magical world. The Frostweald.

LAURA: Oh, it's right in between it.

MATT: It's in that weird place.

TALIESIN: Frost Wilfred Brimley

MATT: Frost Brimley. Frost Brimley is the most dangerous of forests, by the way. Everyone gets diabetes. Sorry. Somewhere the sphinx exists in the Frostweald, which the nameless mate to Osysa, the gynosphinx you met in Vasselheim, sent you to go seek out this information. Upon going to the town of Westruun to the north, it had been partially destroyed by the black dragon Umbrasyl, and in its absence had been taken over by what seems to be Grog's roving barbarian herd.

TRAVIS: Dicks.

LAURA: Total dicks.

MATT: They currently sit on the throne of the town of Westruun and have made some sort of accord with the dragon where they can both simultaneously rule that area as long as they continually provide goods, gold, and whatever they can procure from those who live within the city still. Deciding to continue south, the party made their way into the ever-frozen forest of the Frostweald. You stumbled upon a small hive of basilisks that surrounded an obelisk of Ioun, which gave you your first clue as to the location where this sphinx could be found. You battled the basilisks, destroyed their underground hive, or at least the exit from it, via Fireballs and other such stone wall endeavors. Found amongst the stone ruins of previous victims of the basilisks, you found most of Tyriok Gadsworth, the wandering cartographer, now missing a portion of his right arm. However, he is restored and alive, which is much better than how he was before and is currently leading you guys towards a camp of orcs, supposedly nearby, as some of the survivors of Westruun's destruction were camping far south and some were being captured by this roving orc camp. So you guys have just stepped away from the obelisk and the remains of these basilisks you've slaughtered. As Tyriok leads you guys from where he last saw– at least where he saw some roving orcs before he found himself turned to stone in that previous area. As you travel along, the cold midday air of this forest, there's no wind. It's very still and very quiet, which is unsettling in a place that's so out and open in nature. Your boots are crunching through the snow, step after step, but you're still being as careful and as quiet as you can, moving along. Tyriok is shivering in the cold and one of you manages to pull out one of your extra blankets you have in the Bag of Holding to keep him from going into hypothermia. You guys press on for about ten minutes or so, and he's trying to look around and look at the placement of the sun, look at different areas that he'd seen within the forest and he's thinking to himself. “All right, so I recognize that mountain spire, time of the day, that way is north, west. Follow me!” And he continues to lead you in that direction.

LAURA: And all of that with just a stump.

MATT: Yes. You're terrible.

TRAVIS: Tyriok, do you have a weapon on you?

MATT: “The best weapon I have is right here.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, right, on your way, lad. (whispers) He's going to die first.

MATT: He's trouncing through the snow, little bit ahead, stopping, looking about, before you realize that he's a huge target, he's making a lot of noise.

MARISHA: Didn't we discuss sending him home?

LAURA: No, he had to show us where the orcs were.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I said he shouldn't come, but no–

LAURA: Did I cast Pass Without a Trace on us before we headed out?

MATT: You cast it before the battle. I don't recall if you cast it afterwards.

LAURA: Then I'll cast it again so that he's incorporated in it and I think we should try to stealth it.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: You going to tell him?

LAURA: Hey. Hey, Wonderbrain.

MATT: “Yes?”

LAURA: I think it would be smart if we moved as quietly as possible.

MATT: “Why, that's what I was doing. Perhaps I should stand in the back, then, if you guys want to go… Loosely that way, about 300 paces to the right of the second stone you see with the large outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face, and then continue. I'll guide you from back here.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, that sounds legit.

MATT: He steps to the back.

LAURA: You know, keep a distance. When you hear no more fighting, it's probably safe. Probably.

MATT: “Okay, okay.”

LIAM: I walk up alongside him and say, listen, I know you're not used to weaponry, but take this, please. It's a loaner. And I take my Keen Dagger and I stick it in his hand.

LAURA: What? No, don't– I take it back and I give another dagger to him.

LIAM: I give him the Keen Dagger and say, hold this. It's a loner. It's very sharp. Be careful with it, all right? If you get caught on your own, stab. That's all you got to do, is stab.

TALIESIN: Stab the other person, not yourself.

MATT: His eyes don't leave the blade and he goes, “Okay.”

LAURA: Don't accidentally stab yourself because I think it sucks your life energy out of you.

LIAM: That is not what that does.

LAURA: Yes it does, it definitely sucks your life.

MATT: Make a deception check.

LIAM: At a disadvantage since I contradicted her?

LAURA: 25.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: That's another knife I have.

TRAVIS: Oh really?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: That's a giant die.

LAURA: It's not above 25.

LIAM: 15. It's 15.

MATT: He goes, “Perhaps this is best suited for someone who knows how to wield such dark powers.”

LAURA: I think you are so right. And I'll take that from you. And in exchange, I will give you this wonderful opal dagger that I have on my person.

MATT: “Oh. This is more my speed.”

LAURA: Still very sharp.

TRAVIS: You know what that one does? It makes you infertile.

LIAM: Give me this, you fucking hoarder. What's the matter with you? What are you–

TRAVIS: Yeah, can you feel it in your little bits rumbling? They're all going to sleep forever.

MATT: “Perhaps you have a third or fourth dagger I can try.”

LAURA: What? What did he just tell you? I wasn't paying attention.

TRAVIS: Look, I'm a man of the truth.

LAURA: He's lying. He always lies, don't pay any attention to him. You're safe with that.

LIAM: I push him off, ten feet away from the group, and I pull out the same Keen Dagger–

LAURA: Jesus!

LIAM: Here's a different one. This is a normal dagger.

MATT: “How about I take no dagger and I stay away from this? You guys are starting to be a little weird.” And he hands you the secondary dagger and he puts his one hand up.

LIAM: I just don't want what happened to you before to happen again, all right? You can even put it in your belt, just have it. All right? It's a normal dagger, it's fine. My sister is intimidating.

MATT: “To say the least. All right.”

MARISHA: Vax, just because he's holding a dagger doesn't mean he's going to be successful at using it.

LIAM: What?

MARISHA: You're wasting your time– never mind.

LIAM: Hold on to it.

MATT: “Okay.” As you guys start walking, his eyes don't leave the blade as he takes each step and (whoosh).

LAURA: And then as he walks away, it poofs back into his fucking belt.

LIAM: No, it doesn't.

TRAVIS: All right, so we head towards the outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face.

MATT: Okay, so I'll have you guys all roll a perception check, if you could.

TRAVIS: Perception check. First one!

MARISHA: Heh, natural 19.

LAURA: I don't see anything at all.

TRAVIS: Ten.

LAURA: One.

LIAM: 22.

MARISHA: 29.

TALIESIN: 26.

SAM: Three.

LAURA: Off to the races.

MARISHA: No, I'm sorry, 30. 30.

TRAVIS: What?!

MARISHA: I rolled a 19, my Perception's 11.

TALIESIN: I think you notice things and have an epiphany at that point.

MATT: As you guys are walking, Keyleth shoots her arms out in a stop motion, and you look off and you can see past the clump of trees, maybe 60 feet ahead of you guys, two hulking-looking humanoids tromping through the snow, dragging something behind them. You hear the distant crunch of the snow and there's shape, but it's darker in the area where they are in the distance. Can't really make out a form, but you figure these are probably orcish in nature based on their gait and their outline.

LAURA: (whispers) What is it?

MARISHA: I look at the group and I go–

TRAVIS: Two deer. Santa Claus.

LAURA: Hello, salute, running away.

SAM: Milking a cow.

LIAM: Cha-cha slide.

LAURA: Use your words, Keyleth. Talk.

MARISHA: Okay, okay. it looked like there were two orcs and they were carrying a body.

LAURA: Are they headed this way?

MARISHA: No, they're headed away from us, correct? Away, they're going away?

MATT: Eh, parallel, a little bit away.

LAURA: So I cast Pass Without a Trace on us, so should we stealth?

MATT: Have you guys all roll stealth now.

TRAVIS: Still flat grassland, or are there some trees?

MATT: Well, you guys are in the center of the Frostweald. So it's relatively thick trees, relative canopy.

TALIESIN: Rolling stealth plus ten.

MARISHA: Thank goodness. 22.

TALIESIN: 26.

SAM: 15.

LIAM: 45.

LAURA: 29. What?!

TRAVIS: 26.

MARISHA: You got a natural 20?

TRAVIS: 45, holy shit.

TALIESIN: You don't know where you are anymore at that point.

LIAM: I am one-dimensional.

MATT: So what are you guys going to do?

LAURA: He's a dot.

TRAVIS: From our previous time in the Frostweald, we don't recognize any of this terrain right?

MATT: I mean, you recognize the terrain. It's a large forest.

TRAVIS: No landmarks, no lakes?

MATT: Not nearby, none that you've seen at least. If you want to go look for that, you could, but–

TRAVIS: Are there any paths in front of us, or is it just trees and intermittent terrain?

MATT: If there are paths, they're under so much snow and relatively fresh snow that's perpetually piled on this region, they're not visible at the moment. You can occasional hoofprints in the snow from some wildlife that might live in the vicinity of the forest.

TRAVIS: Don't you like this terrain?

LAURA: I do.

TRAVIS: Well, so what should we do?

LIAM: We're looking for orcs. They're what we're looking for. Aren't they going where we want to go?

TALIESIN: Let's pace and slowly approach.

LAURA: I like it. Can I search the ground and see if there are a lot of tracks around? Or is this like a roaming party?

MATT: From what you can see around, you don't see any tracks from them specifically in front of you, from where they're traveling, it appears to just be the two of them right now. They're either scouts or hunters, and the closer you guys, as you slowly approach, to get a better view, they're both dragging what look to be like two boars that were killed, are currently being dragged by their legs over their shoulders, leaving a trail of crimson in the snow behind them.

LAURA: I think we should take them out before they get back to their group.

SAM: Wait. What is our overall goal here? Are we to slay a bunch of orcs or are we to follow them somewhere?

LAURA: We're supposed to slay them and stop them from–

TRAVIS: Number two and then number one. Follow them and then kill the rest.

LIAM: We want to get rid of all of them, so follow these guys back to the bee's nest and we can take care of the hive.

SAM: Okay, well let's follow silently.

LIAM: Why don't I go a little bit ahead, you follow behind by about 50 paces and the rest of the group behind you?

LAURA: But what if we kill them now, we won't have to fight them–

SAM: Then we won't know where the camp is.

LAURA: But I can follow tracks.

SAM: Oh. Can you?

MARISHA: There won't be tracks if they're dead.

LIAM: They're not coming from where they're from, they're going.

SAM: They were just hunting.

LAURA: Fine! Fuck it!

SAM: Let's follow them.

MATT: So you guys–

TRAVIS: We follow them.

MATT: Okay, you don't catch up, you follow.

TRAVIS: At a safe distance.

MATT: Okay. So you guys continue moving forward, watching them as they go, at a far enough distance. Pike's doing her best to walk behind in the snow, but it's okay! She's barely moving her upper body to make sure it's minimal amount of movement.

LIAM: I'm not far ahead, but I'm ahead. I'm like 30 yards ahead.

MATT: Yeah. Listening out, you can hear the occasional laughter, too far away to hear any sort of language, not that I think you understand or know the language Orcish, but eventually they come over a hill, and down, and you see it first as you crest over. You can see there is a small clearing in the forest of this area, where there are two tents, what looks to be relatively filth-stained tents, like they've been used for an extended period of time, covered in dirt and mud and other things. You can see a small pile of skinned bodies to a side of one of the tents.

LAURA: (whispers) Oh! They're definitely bad.

SAM: (whispers) I don't know.

MATT: There's a large stump next to it, with a trail of blood that leads up to it. You can see there are two small fires that are set in the center of this area, where they're keeping warm to themselves. And these bundled-up orcs are sitting around the fires, drinking. You can see some of them have random silver mugs or cups, some have steins, some have carved pieces of bark that are used as a means of drinking. You can see outside of these tents what appear to be large barrels or casks of wine or liquor that have been probably raided from the camp they found outside of the lake. You can see a couple of them are much larger than the other orcs. One of them is sitting down by the fire and is chuckling with the rest. You see to the back of the camp, there is one that's taking javelins and chucking them up in the air, and they're arcing through. And every time he chucks one, you hear a (scared noise), and as soon as you move to the edge of it, you look over and there is a young man who's strung up by his torso from one of the trees and it looks like a few of the orcs are making target practice. They've already hit him twice. There's one that's sticking out of his thigh and another one that's embedded itself in his shoulder, and little trails of blood streaking down, but he is currently strung up like a piñata and they're having fun with him. You take a moment as the rest of the group catches up to you on the edge and you can see there are a few other people being kept inside the tents right now. One large orc musters out, adorned in thicker armor than the rest of them. He has a band across his head with a big old rough, uncut gem on the front. He starts barking out orders to a few of them. One of the larger ones stands up, and he's probably a good foot taller than the other orcs, lumbers to the back of the two tents and you can see there are two bears that are currently chained up to the back. He reaches over and grabs one of the skinned bodies from the side of the tent and throws it to the two bears and they immediately start tearing it apart and eating it. At this point the rest of the party catches up to you.

LIAM: Okay, so I saw that.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Okay. But they're still a ways off, right?

MATT: In fact, I could probably show you now. Since you have–

SAM: Whoa! It's a cozy camp.

LAURA: Oh my god, look at that camp!

SAM: There's fire, there's bears.

LAURA: Where are the wine barrels?

MATT: The barrels are right there, right there, and right there.

SAM: Oh, there's the guy hanging up in the tree!

MARISHA: Where, where, where? Can you point out those barrels one more time?

MATT: There, there, and there.

LAURA: So next to the tents that the prisoners are being kept in.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Okay. We have options, people.

MATT: They haven't noticed you.

LIAM: How far back are we?

MATT: You are probably back here, a good 60 feet outside of the outskirts of the camp. They don't seem to have noticed your approach and this is entirely however you guys want to approach this.

LIAM: All right, well, I turn back to the group.

LAURA: What time of day is it?

MATT: It's mid-afternoon.

SAM: Can we rest? Are we rested? Yeah, we had a night in the– wait, no. We just killed those–

MATT: No, you haven't rested since the basilisks.

SAM: Okay, so we're down a couple spells, or whatever.

MARISHA: Yeah, but I'm full on hit points. Is anyone hurt?

LAURA: Well, I'm a little hurt.

MATT: It was a bump in the road, the basilisks.

SAM: Yeah. Okay. Hey, oi! So do I create a distraction while you go around back? Do we go in guns blazing? What's the plan? I can distract.

LAURA: I think it would be good to create a distraction. We go in, save the prisoners and then take out the camp.

SAM: So a distraction that would get everyone to run towards me and ignore you?

LAURA: And then we can stealth down–

LIAM: Can we go around the sides–

MARISHA: Flank them?

LIAM: Flank them ahead of time. Scanlan, you create a distraction–

MARISHA: As they're running–

LIAM: – closer to here?

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: You want to get that guy down to the treeline and get the people out.

SAM: Sure. I'll draw them away from the tents.

LAURA: Okay. And then, once everyone's clear, we bring them back and kill them all? Or what?

LIAM: Well, this may be it for orcs? This could be all of them, or it could be just a forward camp, so we need to keep one alive.

LAURA: And find out.

LIAM: And find out if this is the end of it, or if there's more.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

TRAVIS: Good thinking.

LAURA: How do we get all the prisoners out very quickly?

TALIESIN: You have knives. You could cut your way through the back of the tent.

LAURA: Scanlan, could you potentially put all the people in the door?

SAM: No. That is for my recreational use only. Also takes a minute to cast.

MARISHA: Well, Scanlan can create a distraction, I can possibly take a few people out with my ranged spells along the way.

LAURA: I'm saying get the prisoners safe so that nobody's running blindly into the forest.

LIAM: I've lost track of all you've done in the past 24 hours. Could you send everybody through a tree, even back to where their people are?

MARISHA: Not today.

LAURA: What if you spent some time, a minute, creating your mansion, you have a little door here. Once you've created a distraction, we can all run up and put them in the door and then we fight. And then we get the people out of the mansion.

LIAM: Yes, that's good. That's good.

SAM: Interesting idea. It's an interesting idea.

TRAVIS: I kind of like it.

SAM: I like it too.

LIAM: They can go down to the workout room, so they don't soil the other chambers.

SAM: It's not concentration. I mean, it's concentration for a minute, but then after it's cast, it's okay.

MATT: Once it's cast, it's 24 hours that door stays there.

TRAVIS: Yeah, all your little Mr. Meeseeks will take care of them.

SAM: But we still have to get them out of the camp and into the door, unless I make the door in the camp.

TALIESIN: Make the door, make the door at the back of the camp. And that way, we can run them out the back of the tents.

LAURA: Not near the bears.

LIAM: You need to go full Burt Reynolds out in front of that camp and get the bulk of them running towards you.

SAM: I can't do both.

TALIESIN: Make the door first.

TRAVIS: No, no, hey look. I'm good for a distraction.

LIAM: Blow your shawm.

SAM: I'm fine with distractions, but I can't go to the back of the camp and set a door and to the front of the camp and draw them out.

MARISHA: Let Scanlan handle– I almost called him Scandal, which is still appropriate. Let Scanlan handle the door, I can handle the distraction.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM and TALIESIN: All right

LAURA: All right, so we sneak around to the back.

SAM: I'm really good at distractions.

MARISHA: You are, you're incredibly good at distractions.

LIAM: But you're the only one who can make a Hefner mansion out of thin air.

SAM: So I'm to sneak in and make a door and await further instructions?

LIAM: We'll all go together.

LAURA: We'll make the door far enough away.

LIAM: Wait, Keyleth does the distraction. As soon as she goes, you go. So once those guys start running towards her–

SAM: How far away are we?

MATT: You guys are probably about 60 feet away from the far outside of the campline, so around this ring here, just outside of where the table edges are.

SAM: But we're talking like 150 feet? 200 feet?

MATT: You're probably closer to about 60 feet away right now, you can move for–

SAM: Okay, well, we're fine. I can make the door from 300 feet away. So we're fine. So I can make the door right now before we do anything.

LAURA: Do it, make the door!

SAM: Except there's going to be a glowing door in their camp.

LAURA: Make the door behind one of those trees.

SAM: All right. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, fuck it, just do it.

LAURA: Get ready to do a distraction right fucking now.

LIAM: But you know what you're doing, right? Wait! Let's get in position! You and I can do a lot more hurt to these guys if we're closer to the position we have to go?

SAM: All right, flank around, flank around. It's going to take me a minute to cast the spell. You have a minute to get into position.

MATT: So who all's flanking around? All right, so the twins and Percy, where are you guys going?

LIAM: I'll take the long way around, this way.

MATT: Over here?

TRAVIS: Far side?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so.

LIAM: With an eye for the shithead who's tormenting that guy in the tree.

MATT: All right, are you going with him?

LAURA: No, I'm staying on the other side.

MATT: Okay, Percy, you're going with Vax?

TALIESIN: I'm going to go, actually, right over here. I'm going to hide over here and I'm going to try and get a bead on the guy on the tree.

MATT: Okay, easy enough. You get a bead on him, in the outskirts there.

TRAVIS: Pike and I will go with Vax.

SAM: Oh, she's not a good sneaker.

TRAVIS: Oh no, you're right, she should stay put. You're right.

MATT: You're going to be right there.

LAURA: Charge in after the distraction.

MATT: So Grog, where are you going?

TRAVIS: I'll go with Vax.

MATT: Vax? All right, so you make your way around. Keeping your guys' existing stealth checks, which were okay.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I was a 25.

LIAM: 45.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh, Pike did come? We said Pike could stay, because she's not stealthy.

MATT: Not stealthy. Okay then. She stays there. So Pike's going to go– Scanlan, you're moving back? Where are you going?

SAM: I'm staying next to Keyleth because I can do this from a range.

MATT: Where do you guys want to go– Keyleth, for this distraction?

MARISHA: Where's Scanlan?

SAM: Wait, don't do the distraction yet! I haven't set the–

MATT: Where do you guys want to set up for the distraction?

MARISHA: Where did you go, Scanlan?

SAM: I'm right next to you. We want to do it–

MARISHA: Yeah, we want to do it towards us.

SAM: We want to distract around here.

LAURA: And then run the other direction.

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: All right, so you guys are set up right about there.

MARISHA: No, that's where we wanted– Put us more–

SAM: No, he knows. We're back right now, but that's where we will end up.

MATT: You're further back. I can only put you so far away from the table edge.

MARISHA: No, that's good, that's good, that's good.

MATT: All right, Pike's going to stay up with you, since you have the bead right now and if worse comes to worst, she can help rush in and try and help at that point. All right, so who's doing what?

SAM: I'm going to start casting the door.

MATT: All right.

SAM: And I'm going to do it back behind camp, on the treeline or whatever.

MATT: Okay, back far this way?

SAM: You know, just out of eyeshot of them.

MATT: Okay, I'll put this little dice on the corner to represent where the door is.

LAURA: Yeah, that's good, that's good.

LIAM: I turn to Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: I'm moving a little closer, just a bit, stay there.

TRAVIS: Come with you?

LIAM: The opposite of that.

TRAVIS: Go away from you?

LIAM: This is your spot, this is your spot! And I creep towards the trees, a tree closest to me, so I can get closer. Which is the orc that's throwing the javelins on that map?

MATT: These two right here are taking turns.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: At this point, you hear another (grunt, scream), and then some (condescending laughter). Oh, moving up to here?

LIAM: The other tree closer to you.

MATT: Right there?

LIAM: Yeah, and I'll hold there.

MATT: All right. Who's up next? Who's doing what?

TALIESIN: Waiting for the distraction.

SAM: Do you want me to go in and you can cast something? I'll get their attention and you can cast something?

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I have a Monster Manual?

MATT: For what?

MARISHA: Conjure Woodland Beings?

LIAM: Do you want the app?

MARISHA: Maybe.

SAM: There's not many that you can conjure. It's pixies and little things.

LAURA: Yeah, that's little creatures.

SAM: It's okay, she knows what she's doing. No, she doesn't.

MARISHA: Well, I can conjure a bunch of little creatures.

LIAM: You can search. Search!

TRAVIS: If you make a bunch of David the Gnomes–

LAURA: Seriously, like a giant scorpion would be probably pretty cool.

LIAM: Fire elemental? Big, bright fire elemental?

MARISHA: Yeah, but then it wouldn't be me. It'd be something else that's not me that I can control?

MATT: Percy's taking the bead, waiting for the distraction.

TALIESIN: Just do it!

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to say Conjure Woodland Beings.

MATT: What are you conjuring?

MARISHA: I don't know.

MATT: You have to know what you're doing.

MARISHA: Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out. You know, there's not a list of what you can conjure in the book.

SAM: No, there's not.

MARISHA: And it's very unfortunate. And it's some kind of fey creature. So what's a fey creature that's a challenge rating of two that would make sense? That's really scary?

LAURA: Fairies?

MARISHA: Or I can also summon like eight fairies if they're a low enough, you know–

MATT: I hate conjuration spells, by the way guys, so you all know. The worst spells in the whole game.

SAM: I will say this, to be fair to Marisha, the spell does say, your DM will have a list of the creatures.

(laughter)

MATT: Does it really?

SAM: It does, at the end of the spell.

MATT: Fuck that spell.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah it says the DM will have the statistics.

SAM: It says the DM will have the creatures.

MATT: Fuck that spell. Conjuration needs to die. No, conjuration's great, when you're not the DM.

TRAVIS: You don't know me, you don't know what lists I have.

MATT: How about some dryads?

MARISHA: Dryads?

MATT: We'll go see what their challenge rating is.

MARISHA: That sounds cool.

MATT: Past the devils.

LIAM: I'll give you level-two challenge rating.

MATT: And no, we're not doing the whole pixies Polymorph. That's so dumb. Not even going to lie.

MARISHA: Challenge rating of two.

MATT: Challenge rating of one.

MARISHA: It's got to be a fey. Oh, it only has a challenge rating of one?

LAURA and LIAM: Centaur!

MARISHA: What are centaurs?

SAM: Centaurs are not fey, are they?

MARISHA: Apparently.

LAURA: They are!

LIAM: Green dragon wyrmling!

TRAVIS: I'm getting bored.

MATT: I don't think centaurs are fey.

MARISHA: Okay. Well then, let's do two dryads.

MATT: Two dryads. You can do up to two challenge rating–

TALIESIN: (sings) Five gold rings!

MARISHA: Two triads. Dryads. I don't know what it is.

LIAM: Will o' the wisp!

MARISHA: Two dryads.

MATT: We will say here, two dryads. Where are they going?

MARISHA: Right in where–

SAM: Front and center.

MARISHA: Thank you. Yep, here. Ish.

SAM: See this, Matt?

MARISHA: Here. No, there.

MATT: Right there?

MARISHA: Yeah that's a little out. And Scanlan and I are far back.

MATT: Now, suddenly the dryads pop into being and these two humanoid green nature entities that look humanoid but are covered with leaves and their skin has the texture of bark in places. Beautiful, wistful, both appear, summoned out of the ether and land on the snow.

LIAM: Crunch.

MATT: The ground gives out from under them, they both go, (screams) and fall into a pit here.

SAM: Oh shit!

MARISHA: See, aren't you glad that wasn't me?

SAM: Yeah. Good job.

LIAM: Couldn't have gone with the will o' the wisp.

TRAVIS: A pit?

LIAM: They would have floated right above it.

MATT: This whole section here has now crumpled below. The dryads, however, have to make a save.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: One of them saves.

LIAM: But that wasn't us!

MARISHA: That wasn't us!

MATT: That wasn't you guys. Like right there? Okay!

MARISHA: Wasn't me! It's all I care about!

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: This is the most Douglas Adams beginning of a fight ever.

MATT: One dryad dies a horrible screaming death. (screams) And the other one you hear is breathing heavily from the inside right now.

MARISHA: Keyleth is standing at the edge of the forest going–

MATT: At which point, a bunch of the orcs turn around. I need both of you guys to– let's see, because they're making active perception. What was your stealth check, Sam?

SAM: 15, but it doesn't matter. I'm walking forward.

MATT: (chuckles) Okay.

SAM: I'm going to cast the Resilient Sphere on myself. And I'm going to roll into camp. Hamster-style.

MARISHA: Wait, can I go with you a little bit?

SAM: Don't.

MARISHA: Can I do a thing with him?

TRAVIS: If he says don't, then–

LAURA: Then probably don't.

LIAM: No, let him do his thing. It's marble madness, everybody.

SAM: I'm going to start singing to get their attention. (sings 'Tro-lo-lo')

MARISHA: Just avoid the pit!

MATT: All right. All 60 feet, you avoid the pit, you roll around, all the orcs look over. “Huh? "Stupid gnome!”

SAM: Very stupid.

MATT: Initiative has now kicked in; I need everyone to roll initiative. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: Jesus Christ.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a good roll!

MATT: All right, so–

TALIESIN: Oh, hell yes.

MARISHA: Spent all that time figuring out what I was going to do and then they fell in a crack.

SAM: You did great! You exposed the trap! You saved–

LAURA: It's true!

TALIESIN: If you'd conjured a will-o'-wisp, it would have been you in that hole.

SAM: If I had just gone out, I would have fallen in the hole!

LIAM: It's all right, Wendy will draw some dryads falling into the spikes–

MATT: Initiative orders. 25 to 20?

LIAM: 25.

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: Whoa.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: All right, 25. So we have Vax. 24, Percy.

MARISHA: 21.

TRAVIS: And 20.

MATT: Keyleth and Grog. Oh man.

MATT: All right, 20 to 15.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16. Vex. And then Pike, right after you!

SAM: 11.

MATT: 11. Tyriok is hidden away. As you guys begin to approach the camp, he's like, “I'm going to stay back here.” So he's way out of the field now. Scanlan bringing up the rear. As he would want to. All right. So that brings us to the top of the combat round. All the orcs now have stood up, grabbed their weapons, and they see this giant hamster wheel of a gnome rolling into the camp. They all look really confused but have their weapons ready to go. Vax, you're up first.

LIAM: Poo.

MARISHA: The door's already summoned, yeah?

LIAM: What are we doing, are we waiting, are we going? I– I'm going to sling a dagger. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. I did? Then I'm going to sling a dagger.

MATT: You used them on the basilisk fight.

LIAM: Great, thank you. I'm going to sling a dagger at the orc right in front of those two bears.

MATT: Right there?

LIAM: There. Yeah.

MATT: All right, go for it.

LIAM: All right. So advantage.

SAM: We're still trying to draw them out, right?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I got a 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

LIAM: Okay. All right. So I'm going to roll for damage. So this is Assassin. It is not surprise?

MATT: Not surprise. They have been made aware that there is a threat, as Scanlan rolled in. You do have advantage because he doesn't see you. So it would sneak attack.

TRAVIS: In his gerbil ball.

LIAM: Here comes the sneak attack damage, Two, four, that was the worst sneak attack damage ever. (counting) 29.

MATT: 29 points of piercing damage. The giant creature, as the dagger (whoosh) through the air, doesn't even notice it. It's looking over where Scanlan is and is grabbing the chains and breaking them from where the bears are currently bound.

SAM: Oh shit.

MATT: Hasn't broken them yet, he's going in for the pull as the dagger (impacts) the back of its neck and it's looking over in the direction where it came from. What are you doing?

LIAM: I would like to use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and go for it. Roll for stealth.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: 30? He glances over in your direction, looks up, looks in the other direction, reaches up and goes to pull the dagger out, but it's already gone.

LAURA: That's so sneaky.

MATT: (roars) And angrily yells out into nothing. Has no idea where you are.

LIAM: And then I'm going to use my movement to squish down into the snow a bit, up to here, feathers sticking out a little bit.

MATT: Awesome. Ends Vax's turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Amazingly, I've got a bead on that guy who's trying to let the bears out of their chains.

MATT: You do, actually. Yes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take Bad News and I'm going to sit and take a nice calm breath, and I'm going to squeeze off a shot and knock him on his ass, so this is a trick shot, leg hit.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Wait, before I do anything, I still can use Hex because the last creature to have Hex on them died, so I can use it as a bonus action to cast Hex again, can't I?

MATT: Correct. How long does it last, though?

TALIESIN: Couple hours, I believe.

MATT: I will check.

TALIESIN: Might have been too long.

MATT: It's been about an hour or so since that last encounter as you were travelling through the forest, so with Hex, up to an hour. Yeah, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Oh, fuck it. And it's a full day's rest? It's a long rest.

MATT: For you, yeah. 'Cause it's the feat as opposed to an actual class feature. All right, taking your aim.

TALIESIN: That's fine! Taking that shot.

MATT: Sharpshooter or not?

TALIESIN: No, not Sharpshooter. That's 24 to hit.

MATT: 24 hits! Heavy plate armor covered orc-like creature. Bigger than a regular orc that you've seen before.

TALIESIN: He has a strength saving throw?

MATT: Yes, he does.

TRAVIS: Which one is he?

MATT: That is going to be a nine, 'cause he rolled really bad.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, he's prone.

MATT: So with that (impact).

TALIESIN: He also takes 15 points of piercing damage.

MATT: 15 points of piercing damage. As you (gunshot) rockets off, the sound cracks through the air. All the orcs now glance over in your direction, as the bullet streaks past them, tickling the bottom of the feet of the guy who's strung up, and slamming into the chest of the armored orc. Lands straight on his back on the ground right there.

TALIESIN: Cool.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to move to my right six spaces and I'm going to take another shot at the guy who's right ahead of us, in front of the pit.

MATT: Right there?

TALIESIN: Yeah, right there. I'm going to take a Sharpshooter shot.

MATT: Go for it. You reload and then the third attack for the shot.

TALIESIN: Yep. Whoa, that's nice. 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. 27. That hits. That's ridiculous.

MATT: Is that even with Sharpshooter?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I rolled an 18.

MATT: (chuckle) All righty.

TALIESIN: So that's a better roll? A better roll. That was a pretty good roll. 16, 17, 17, 27– 33 points of damage.

MATT: 33 points of damage. You blow that orc's head clear off its shoulder. Spray of mist comes out the top of his form, as he slumps down into the fire in front of him. Two other orcs look over at you, who are now clearly visible. (grunts)

TALIESIN: I put down the gun and I breathe.

MATT: (chuckles) All right, that ends your turn. Brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay, you mentioned that a few were coming over and looking over at the edge of the pit. Are there still a few more at the edge of the pit?

MATT: They weren't coming and looking at the edge of the pit, they all looked over in the direction of where Scanlan was rolling in, around the center. They're all still in place watching this giant gnome roll in, but some of them have looked over at Percy, who's firing a very loud weapon in their vicinity.

TALIESIN: I figured I would be part of the distraction.

MARISHA: Sure. How far away is that guy from the pit?

MATT: He's about 15 feet.

MARISHA: Okay, here's what I want to do. I'm going to go earth elemental, but I want to, like, do it like a badass, you know? So I see Scanlan–

MATT: Did you use your scorpion form?

MARISHA: Fuck! I did use scorpion. Fuck, damn it, we haven't taken a short rest.

MATT: You haven't taken a short rest. Yeah, so you can't–

MARISHA: Then I don't do any of that. Instead, where's Scanlan?

MATT: Scanlan is right here.

TALIESIN: I thought we had taken a short rest, just not a long rest.

MATT: Between?

TALIESIN: Yeah. 'Cause we stopped and we healed.

MATT: You know what? You may have, yeah! If you want to do that, I'll let you do it.

MARISHA: Did we? Are you sure?

SAM: We healed up each other.

MARISHA: All right, fine!

MATT: We'll say we allowed a short rest, that way you were reviving Tyriok and everything. That's fine.

MARISHA: Okay, so I walk and I sink into the ground as I'm walking off, and I want to pop up next to this guy.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And I want to throw his ass in the pit.

(cheering)

MARISHA: (yelling) This. Is. Vox Machina! …Town.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make an athletics check.

MARISHA: …Territory. Strength check?

MATT: You know what, this would be strength. Yeah, we'll make it strength.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay. The orc looks as you (explosion) out of the snow and rock being thrown out of the area, and, “Huh?” looks over his shoulder at you with confused look, goes to wring the edge of this giant club it's holding to come towards you as you grab both shoulders, gives you this look of utter, sheer fear, as you lift him up and lob him over the side into the pit.

TALIESIN: That dryad can help kill him now.

MATT: Yeah, he does not make his save.

SAM: Oh no, is he going to crush the dryad?

MARISHA: He's going to get crushed. He's going to crush the dryad.

MATT: 28 points of damage. Yeah, you hear a (pained grunt).

SAM: He died?

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: Do we also hear a little dryad voice?

MATT: (high-pitched grunt)

(laughter)

MATT: As it gets sandwiched.

LIAM: Pushed it through.

MATT: The dryad was almost out of the pit, climbing her way out (heavy landing). All right, so Keyleth, does that end your turn?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I'm going to hold my turn until all of our party has gone.

MATT: So I'll let you go to the back of the initiative order.

TRAVIS: Okay, yeah, sure.

MATT: All righty. Vex? What you got?

LAURA: I'm going to run forward. Well, actually, I'm going to stay hidden. Okay. I'm going to–

SAM: Those seem like opposite commands.

LAURA: I know, I know, I know. Can I stealth forward?

MATT: I mean, no one seems to have noticed you at the moment.

LAURA: Okay, good, then I stealth forward, towards the camp, towards the tent, away, staying away from people. Yeah. Is that as far as I can go in, towards the tent?

MATT: Six spaces, yeah, 'cause you don't have any additional movement from there.

LAURA: Then I'm going to stealthily–

MATT: You can keep moving if you use the rest of your action to move again.

LAURA: I'll be able to get to it on my next turn? To the tent?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Then I'll shoot one of the guys.

MATT: All right, which one do you want to shoot?

LAURA: That–

MATT: The one right there?

LAURA: Yeah. That's really hard to hold steady. Yeah, I'm going to shoot him.

MATT: Okay, go for it. Both attacks?

LAURA: Yeah. 18 on the first.

MATT: 18 just barely hits.

LAURA: And 30 on the second?

MATT: That hits. Roll damage twice on that.

LAURA: Okay. 15, 16, 17. And that's sneak attack?

MATT: Yes, on the first one. So roll an additional–

LAURA: Five is 22?

MATT: 22 points of damage for the first arrow. Nice. Second attack?

LAURA: Second attack is five, seven, 13, no 14. 12? I can add. 13, 14. Oh no, I don't get sneak attack on the second.

MATT: No, just the first one.

LAURA: 14 on the second attack.

MATT: 14. Nice. You pull two arrows out and release them both at once. As you duck behind the tree, the guy who's pulled out this giant greataxe and is now starting to lumber in the direction of Keyleth, this giant earth elemental that burst out of the ground. Both arrows sink in.

LAURA: I use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: Go ahead and roll stealth again. As both arrows sink into the back of the armor, piercing through, and embedding themselves a few inches or more into the back of this, this creature looks over its shoulder towards you. What'd you roll?

LAURA: 36.

MATT: 36? Glances back over. Doesn't seem to have any idea where the arrows came from, but is grimacing in the pain. End your turn? All right, Pike, now, is going to–

LAURA: Oh, Pike!

MATT: As everyone's scattered about, Pike is going to move forward. Let's see here. Yeah, going to do what Pike would do.

TRAVIS: Guiding Bolt.

MATT: Guiding Bolt!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yes!

LIAM, LAURA, and TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: But she's really strong now, with the Guiding Bolt. Yeah!

MARISHA: WWPD. What would Pike do?

MATT: So Pike is going aim it at one of the guys, one of the guys with the javelins that was throwing at the guy, to prevent that from happening. Guiding Bolt on that. Ranged spell attack– oh yeah, that'll hit. That's a 15 plus six. Yeah, that hits.

LIAM: Come on, Trickfoot!

MATT: All righty, that's 4d6 radiant damage to that guy.

LIAM: Dag, yo!

TRAVIS: 4d6?

MATT: 4d6. 15 radiant damage.

ALL: Oh.

TRAVIS: You roll her really well.

MATT: 15 points of radiant damage, the next attack against that guy has advantage, as he's now a giant beacon, as the blast streaks forward from her extended hand, smashes into the front of this orc, drops the javelin in his hand, spins around, looking in the direction she came from and you can now see there's this glow pulsing off the front of his armor. That's going to go ahead and end her turn, bringing us down to their turn. Now, this guy is going to try and get back up. He's going to bring down his greataxe onto the chains he was setting up, he was going to try and break them. Now he's going to smash it down. Breaks both of the chains and both of the bears are now free.

TALIESIN: He's prone, though, can he do that?

SAM: He just got up.

MATT: He got up. He can still only move three more squares, there. That's going to finish his turn. This guy here is going to lurch forward in the front of you, Keyleth, and take two swings with his greataxe towards you. That is a 17 to hit?

MARISHA: 17 is my natural armor.

MATT: All right, so that hits. And then that is an 18. 17 and 18 both hit you. You take 24 points of slashing damage, as each smash of the greataxe streaks across the front of the stony armor that you wear, breaking off chunks here and there, but there's plenty more where that came from as an earth elemental. That ends his turn. Let's see. This guy's going to rush up, this guy's going to rush up, this guy here is going to attempt to climb out. He gets partway up, starts cresting over the edge, he's not up because he was knocked prone as he fell, so he's over the side. Percy, you see one orcish arm come up and start to pull itself out the side of the pit. This guy here is going to move up, grabbing another javelin. This guy is going to pick up his javelin from the ground, move over this way, seeing that the earth elemental is being taken care of, and they're both going to throw javelins at you. Let's see, that is a 24 to hit.

TALIESIN: Can I do a Gloves of Missile Snaring?

MATT: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll.

LAURA: Are those the ones I gave you?

TALIESIN: Yeah, so that's 24 to hit?

MATT: Well, what does it say on the gloves?

TALIESIN: It's actually– I can reduce damage, I can't change whether or not it hit.

MATT: Yes, exactly, so it is eight points of piercing damage.

TALIESIN: Eight? Eight points of piercing damage? Okay, so I'm going to try and catch it. And yeah, I reduce the damage to zero and I actually can catch it in midair.

MATT: As it chucks the javelin, you catch it and stop it in midair.

TALIESIN: Stab it into the ground.

MATT: Stab it into the ground. As you're thinking how awesome that was, the other one rolled a natural 20.

(groaning)

LIAM: Oh, look at that smile.

MATT: However! Still rolled pretty low on the damage. That's going to be nine points of piercing damage for the second one.

TALIESIN: Can I use it again or no?

MATT: What does it say on the glove? It's a reaction. You only get one reaction per round, so no, you cannot.

TALIESIN: What did they roll to hit, though?

MATT: That one was a 20, a natural 20.

TALIESIN: A natural 20, so it hits no matter what.

MATT: Yeah. So yeah, you take nine points of piercing damage as the other javelin streaks past you, it cuts past the shoulder, nothing too bad, but didn't quite take away from the moment that you just got to enjoy.

TALIESIN: I took eight points of damage?

MATT: Nine points of piercing damage. All right, that ends that orc's turn. This one, the one that seems more decorated with the gem-encrusted headband runs out and starts shouting orders.

SAM: Did the two that were on me attack?

MATT: He's going to come forward and begin to attempt to attack your orb as well. All three strike at the orb, trying to cut through.

SAM: Can I act like they're hurting me?

MATT: If you want to.

SAM: Ugh! Ah! Ooh! Oh!

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: Deception?

MATT: Deception, yes.

SAM: 27.

LIAM: Okay, Sam, I'm going to need five small pain reactions and five large pain reactions.

SAM: (sounds of pain)

TALIESIN: Can I get some closed-mouth ones?

SAM: (sounds of pain)

TALIESIN: Okay, now breathier.

MATT: As they're all striking at this sphere, sparks of arcane energy shooting off with each blade attack against the outside, they're all getting winded. You can see sweat dripping off their brow, as they're not seemingly making an impact. However, with each pained cry you give out, you see their grins widen. And they realize, no, this is working. And all three of them keep hacking at it, as the one war chief is like, (yelling in Orcish) and they keep slamming at the sides of this in hopes of cutting through it.

TALIESIN: Cats with a catnip toy.

MATT: This one, two javelins there, that's good there, that's good there. I don't think they have one, in there– nope! So that is going to be the end of their turn. Now the bears are going to go. The two bears are going to go tromping forward 40 feet. 35, 40.

MARISHA: Remember the love in your heart!

MATT: This one's going to go ahead and run past to there. Since they can't attack anything, this one's going to keep moving around. He uses his movement to get behind there and starts biting at the back of the ball. This one will get over to the earth elemental, as it is the biggest and most visible target. All right, that's going to go ahead and end their turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Yeah, it's my turn.

TRAVIS: Wait, are we at the top of the round?

SAM: No, no, it's bottom of the round. I'm the last guy and then you. Oh shit, do I keep them here, or do I go to work?

LAURA: Get them out.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to very quickly drop the orb and Dimension Door into one of the tents.

MATT: Okay. The orb vanishes, and with a flick of your wrist, a goodbye wave, you vanish entirely from sight. Which tent do you want to appear in?

SAM: I had wanted to go to not the one that Laura was saying, the other one. That's the one I was going to go to, because it's closer to the door.

MATT: So you appear inside this tent. And on the inside you can see there are two people that are currently within. Just to mark where the tent is.

SAM: Are they human? Or are they dancer?

MATT: They are human and they're pretty brutalized. One of them you see is this relatively well-dressed nobleman, his clothing filthy. Part of his face is swollen and bruised from what looks like he's been beaten within an inch of his life. The other one is a woman and you can see, one arm appears to be broken and she's cradling it in her hand. And they're both recoiling and holding to the back, like the corners of the tent, and when you appear, they both gasp and begin naturally scrambling away before they realize you're not an orc.

SAM: I say, come with me if you want to live. And do I have any movement? Can I try to unbind them?

MATT: Yeah, you don't have movement. You can start to move over to start unbinding them if you want to.

SAM: Okay, that's what I'll do.

MATT: Okay, so you go to the rope bonds and start helping them try and release themselves. Okay. That's the end of Scanlan's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Watching everybody run forward, forming this delicious mosh pit right there in the middle, can I go into a frenzied rage? Can I book ass towards all these bastards and see if I can get close to this little prick?

MATT: 30, 35, 40–

TRAVIS: I have 50.

MATT: 45–

(cheering)

TRAVIS: I'm good!

MATT: We'll say, go ahead and make an acrobatics check to try and move between those two guys.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20. Okay! You manage to, in a rage, as you're rushing through, yelling. They're all confused by the moment of the disappearing hamster ball of a gnome, look over their shoulder, and you dive into a shoulder roll, like a bowling ball, slamming into two of them, finding your feet on the other side, swing around, and the two that you pushed past, knocked on their shoulder, didn't fall off their feet, but you manage to push your way through, land in place, spin around. You can take the rest of your turn, if you want.

TRAVIS: Can I turn and say, all right, amateurs, time to go pro! And I would like to use Reckless Attack and with my frenzied rage, I take all three attacks at the crystal-bearing piece of shit. I can't hit him with my thing.

MATT: Right there? He's just out of range.

TRAVIS: He's just out of range? Whoever's the closest except for the bear.

MATT: Okay. It'll be either one of those two guys.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, he'll take it.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: He'll take all of it. So I have advantage on these and advantage on attacks.

MATT: I'd say, go for each attack, just in case, individually, just in case you manage to kill one, you can move on to the next.

TRAVIS: So do all the attacks first?

MATT: Yeah. Well no, do the first attack.

LIAM: Attack and damage, attack and damage.

TRAVIS: Attack and damage, okay. 15 for the first one.

MATT: 15 for the first one hits!

TRAVIS: Yay! Oh god, nine. 18! 18 points of damage.

MATT: 18 points of damage, all right.

TRAVIS: And there's a constitution–

MATT: Does fail its save.

TRAVIS: Yay! Give me your shit. Okay, second one is a 24.

MATT: 24 points of damage?

TRAVIS: No, 24 to hit.

MATT: 24 to hit? 24 hits.

TRAVIS: Yep. That's crap, nine. That's also 18 points of damage on the second one.

MATT: 18. The first hack cleaves into the side of his shoulders, the second one you bring across his midsection and his whole innards spill out onto the snow. Crumples into the ground before you.

TRAVIS: And when I kill someone, I get an additional attack.

MATT: As a bonus action. But you're already using your bonus action as a frenzied rage.

TRAVIS: Right, thank you.

MATT: Yeah, so you can do that outside of a frenzied rage, if you kill something.

TRAVIS: So this is the last one and there's a bear there, right?

MATT: He also did fail his save on that, so you got another bonus to strength.

TRAVIS: Hell, upgrades all around, bitches. Last one.

MATT: What's your strength at now?

TRAVIS: 24. It's a plus three on top of everything else.

MATT: Plus three on top of that?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Nice. All right, what was the attack?

TRAVIS: No, it's a plus one because we took a short rest, right?

SAM: We did.

MATT: When you take a short rest, yeah.

TRAVIS: That wipes it. Right? Or a long rest wipes it.

MATT: Yeah. I believe for Craven Edge–

TRAVIS: Craven Edge. Strength loss/gain from this feature lasts until your next short rest.

MATT: Short rest, yeah.

TRAVIS: So it's just plus one.

MATT: But you can say you don't have to take a short rest if you don't want to. It's up to you.

TRAVIS: I didn't want to! I'm not hit. I was fine! I was literally untouched.

MATT: Yeah, if you wanted to keep it, you would have been able to walk around aggressively and maintain it. That's fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Aggressively.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: (laughs) Walk around aggressively.

TRAVIS: 27 on the third one.

MATT: 27 hits.

TRAVIS: That's the damage.

MATT: Oh, that's the damage, all right.

TRAVIS: Can I use it against the bear?

SAM: Ooh.

TRAVIS: Or just the person, is he the only other one in range?

MATT: Well, if you're rolling to hit, right? Whoever you're attacking, the AC differs. So what was your attack roll on that one?

TRAVIS: It was a 24.

MATT: Yeah, no, that hits the bear. So go for it. Damage the bear.

TRAVIS: That was the damage, was 27.

MATT: 27 points against the bear, got you.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so after completely gutting the first guy, you turn around and slam the axe into the hide of the bear. Up close, you can see, the bear, unlike Trinket, edges of its shoulders and parts of its spine, you can see bone protruding out in points and juts. It's different, a little more dangerous than a regular bear you've encountered at the get-go. However, your blade does sink a good four to five inches into its hide, cleaving a giant wound in its side. It howls and seems very pissed off. But so are you.

TRAVIS: Does he have to make a constitution–

MATT: He did make his save at 15.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

MATT: That end your turn?

TRAVIS: That does.

MATT: That ends your turn! All right, back up to the top. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm still hidden, so I'm going to move along the side of the tent behind those barrels. And I want to throw two daggers at the magic-using orc.

MATT: Magic-using orc?

LIAM: Didn't you say one of them was with a circlet?

MATT: Oh. That one?

LIAM: That one.

MATT: Oh yeah, right there.

LIAM: Yeah, and I'm going to use my Sharpshooter ability to do negative five to the attack roll, plus ten to damage.

MATT: To the damage? Go for it.

LIAM: I'm going to use Luck. Same exact roll. First one–

LAURA: You should roll in your box.

LIAM: Okay. I need Wyrmwood! Critrole. 17 from the first.

MATT: 17 hits.

LIAM: 17 hits. And the second one is 15.

MATT: 15 misses, unfortunately.

LIAM: Misses, but the sneak attack damage travels on the first dagger.

MATT: Yes it does.

LIAM: Yes it does. So here it comes. (counting) 33. 33 plus six! 39.

MATT: 39, is that with the plus ten? Sharpshooter?

LIAM: Oh. No, it's not!

MATT: So 49.

LIAM: 49.

MATT: 49 points of damage, as you dart up along the side of the tent, getting behind the barrels. It sinks right into the back, between the shoulder blades of the chief orc of this group. You see his whole body tenses up from the severe amount of pain and he tries to reach at from the back and spins around, looking straight at you.

LIAM: Hey, go fuck yourself. I stare him down.

MATT: All right, okay. Ending your turn there. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to grab the javelin really quick. I'm going to walk over to the guy who's just starting to crawl out of the pit.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to look him in the eye. Javelin goes right in the face.

MATT: Roll for an attack.

TALIESIN: I'm using it as a stabbing weapon. I'm not letting go until he drops.

MATT: Right, no. I understand. I do not believe the javelin is finesse. So this may be a strength-based attack. Let me double-check.

LIAM: But it's already happened.

TALIESIN: That's fine. It wasn't about the strength!

MATT: So it's your strength bonus plus five.

TALIESIN: Strength bonus plus five?

TRAVIS: With advantage because he's hanging over a–?

MATT: What's your strength modifier?

TALIESIN: One.

MATT: So plus six for this roll.

TALIESIN: Plus six?

MATT: Technically, you get advantage because he's there, technically prone as he's getting up out of the–

TALIESIN: Six, seven, eight, nine, 11.

MATT: 11. Your first attack you whiff. He ducks out of the way, actually pulling down into the pit and it misses his head, and he gets up again and extends a hand to reach out towards your ankle.

TALIESIN: Throw it away, pull out the gun and shoot.

(laughter)

LIAM: What a Raiders moment!

TRAVIS: Yes! Totally.

MARISHA: Yes, totally Indy-ed it!

TALIESIN: First shot to the face. That's still better. 17 to hit?

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Okay. That's 15 points of piercing damage.

MATT: As soon as he reaches out for your ankle, you pull a pistol out and he looks up at you. The front of his head detonates and he slumps backward, falling into the pit silently.

MARISHA: Silently. Oh no.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look up to see if anybody has noticed that this has happened.

MATT: The two guys that were throwing javelins at you have watched this happen. They seem unaffected, they're just really pissed off at you. Orcs aren't– they're used to seeing their friends die, they keep coming at you, so these two are like, (growls).

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to pick one of them and take another shot. The one on the left, I'm going to take a– yeah, let's do a sharpshooter shot on him.

MATT: Your left, okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah, our left.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

SAM: Stage right.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that'll hit. 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TALIESIN: That's 17 points of damage.

MATT: 17 points of damage, got it. This one is a gut shot, hits him on the side of the stomach and you can see part of the back of the armor blow out, and he grabs it for a second and keeps looking towards you, seemingly un-fully phased by the impact of the blow. Going to stay where you are?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Use that pit to your advantage. Good. Ending Percy's turn, Keyleth, you're up. Vex, you're on deck.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to take the two dudes who are in front of me, you can tell me if I can do this twice or not, I want to do my multi-slam attack, my multi-attack slam, and I want to go, in as dictated in Common as I can as an earth elemental, knock. Knock. And I want to take their heads and go, boof-boof.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, so you'll move one, two to get into combat range with two of them. Go ahead and make a slam attack against each of them.

MARISHA: Against each of them?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Okay. Natural 19 on the first one.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And a natural 18 on the second.

MATT: I'm going to say those both hit. Go ahead and roll slam damage.

LIAM: (rock voice) Knock-knock.

MARISHA: (rock voice) Knock-knock. (normal voice) First attack is 13 plus– 18 points. Second, not as good, ten points.

MATT: Ten points. So you take the larger orc who's coming at you with full plate armor and this greataxe that it's bearing towards you, hacked at you twice last round, and the one that just got shot in its gut by Percy. You stumble in the front of them and they both look up at you for a second, snarl before you go, “Knock-knock.” (whack) Crack their heads together. The one that Percy shot pulls back, its nose is smashed and it's a smear of blood on the front of its face, it's still standing but it stumbles back a bit. The other orc, however, as you pull back in your hand you look down, most of its face is completely caved in, you hear a slight gurgle and a little blub of blood come out of what used to be its mouth before its body goes limp in your grasp.

MARISHA: Can I take his body and chuck it in the hole?

MATT: Sure, you take it and throw it over your head. It arcs right in front of you, Percy, down into the pit. You hear a (yelp) as the final remnants of the dryad are crushed by the fall.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: It served its purpose.

MATT: All righty. That finishes your turn, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh, me? I thought Travis was after–

TRAVIS: I'm at the bottom of the round.

LAURA: Oh, every time?

MATT: Yeah, he changed his initiative.

LAURA: Oh, okay. I want to shoot Trinket out into a Cannonball from–

MATT: Okay, this'll be your action to do this.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to move up to where I'm lined up with all of that row, so this whole shebang right here.

MATT: Over here?

LAURA: Yeah. All of these guys.

TRAVIS: Yeah, please me too.

LAURA: And you too, because you practiced it with him.

TRAVIS: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.

LAURA: Take out the thing and say, Trinket! Cannonball! And shoot him out and try to roll into all those guys there.

MATT: Okay, so using your action and Trinket's bonus action as part of the attack here.

LAURA: Right.

MATT: Trinket all of a sudden leaps out of the necklace, slamming into the larger bear in front. For 30 feet, that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. What's Trinket's movement?

LAURA: His move is 40.

MATT: 40. You have 40, landing right there. Go ahead and roll three attacks.

LAURA: Three attacks.

TRAVIS: Good boy.

LAURA: Oh god, really? He gets advantage because he's awesome.

MATT and LAURA: No.

LAURA: He rolled pretty fricking bad. 12?

MATT: 12 hits the bear. It's a big bear. What's the second attack?

LAURA: 15?

MATT: 15 just hits the orc. And the third one?

LAURA: One!

MATT and LAURA: Miss.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll the Cannonball damage on those two.

LAURA: What is that?

MATT: It should be on Trinket's sheet as one of the attacks.

LAURA: Cannonball, exclamation point. Cannonball.

MATT: If you don't have it written down, I have it in my–

LIAM: Yeah, go for that.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

LAURA: You know what, you sent it to me forever ago, it's in my email somewhere, Matt.

MATT: That's okay. I have it here in my pdf, it's fine. As part of your beastmaster–

LAURA: Can you tell me what magical beasts I can conjure while you're at it, because–

MATT: I will fight you. All right, 2d6 plus eight bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: 2d6 plus eight, okay.

MATT: However, the one that missed does get an opportunity attack against Trinket.

SAM: Oh, snap.

LAURA: I suck. 2d6 plus eight.

LIAM: Hey, that's not bad.

LAURA: 12 on the first.

MATT: Okay, 12 on the first. As the bear slams into the larger bear, like rolling over the top, and then comes down onto the second, the other target, the orc, smashing into him. The orc almost gets knocked off his feet and then the third one sidesteps and swings at Trinket, so go ahead and roll damage for the second orc.

TRAVIS: Nice.

LAURA: That's better. 17 on the second.

MATT: 17. Trinket crushes the other orc who'd already been softened up from the blow from Keyleth's earth elemental.

LAURA: Yes, good job Trinket!

MATT: As Trinket rolls past, you can see this crushed form of the orc on the ground in the snow, crushed in place.

LAURA: Good job, buddy!

MATT: Most of the bones broken and turned to dust. The third one, however, sidesteps and is going to go ahead and take a swing at Trinket. That is going to be a 19 to hit.

LAURA: 20!

MATT: 20. Right across the top of Trinket's armor, no effect.

TALIESIN: Can't even hit a bear.

LAURA: Really dizzy though.

MATT: That's going to be your turn, though.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Pike. Pike–

LAURA: Can I use my bonus, though? Do I have a bonus action on top of that?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Hide?

MATT: You did not start your round hidden, unfortunately. Or did you? Oh no, you did, you did! You totally did, yes, so you can hide. Roll stealth. You'll have to move back over here–

LAURA: Natural 20!

MARISHA: Hey!

MATT: So you move back behind the tree so you can find a place to hide. And then you go ahead and vanish. Cartoon-style, like run behind the tree and don't come out the other side.

LIAM: Does she paddle the canoe down?

MATT: Pike's going to go ahead and, one, two, three, four, five. With the view there is going to go ahead–

LIAM: Come on, golden child. I want the Pike.

MATT: Pike's going to go ahead and continue to run over here, because she sees that the guy who's hanging up there who has three javelins stuck in him now is like passed out and bleeding.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: She's making her way around to try and heal him.

LIAM: Such an Ashley thing to do.

MATT: All right. Their turn now.

SAM: Oh boy.

MATT: This guy here is going to go ahead and converge, well no, locked in with Trinket, he's not going to take the attack of opportunity from him. This guy's going to move here, that orc's going to move around to–

LAURA: Look at how teeny Trinket is compared to the other bears!

MATT: I know. This bear's going to go ahead and move in on you, Marisha. Big old dire-bear-looking creature bearing down on you.

MARISHA: I brace.

MATT: All right, so. The war chief begins to scream out, (yelling in Orcish), pointing at you, Grog. And you see the other orc on the other side goes, (yells) and seems to be energized by the rousing cry that it's given, so advantage on attack rolls for all within earshot.

TRAVIS: Come on, give us a tickle.

LAURA: You can do that?

MATT: This guy's actually going to move–

SAM: Well, maybe it's another spell or something, yeah.

MARISHA: Paladin or some shit like that.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's a very paladin thing.

LAURA: Man, that's a good thing to have.

MATT: All right. So since I moved him up last round because he was hiding behind a tree there, so the other larger orc, the one that was tending the bears rushes up alongside with you as well, Keyleth. All right, so the war chief is going to make one attack as a bonus action, it can do that against you, Grog, with advantage. That's going to be a 22 to hit.

TRAVIS: That'll hit.

MATT: All right. You take 16 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight, because you're raging, so eight points of slashing damage as the war chief comes down with its greataxe. It sinks a few inches into your shoulder and it carves it down, almost matching the scar you have across your chest, and grinning at you the whole time. As you grin back at it, his friend is going to come up with its greataxe and is going to come down, this is with advantage as well. That's going to be a 17 to hit?

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: That misses. As it comes up overhead to try and swing down to go towards the top of the nape of your neck and head area, you notice out of the corner of your eye, bring up your sword and deflect it down into the snow behind you, looking over your shoulder at it. The bear is now going to come up alongside and is going to make a bite and a claw attack against you.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: That is going to be a 19 to hit?

TRAVIS: That's 19, my armor class.

MATT: And that's going to be a 21 to hit.

TRAVIS: Yep, both hit.

MATT: So you take nine points of piercing damage as it bites you, reduced to four. We'll say four, I'm trying to round down consistently going forward. So you take four points of piercing damage from that, and then you take 12, reduced to six slashing damage.

TRAVIS: Okay. Ten total?

MATT: Total of 11 points of damage. Or ten, you're right. From the bear. Bear attacking you, actually no, first the orc attacking Trinket now.

LAURA: No!

MATT: With advantage.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Oh man, that's a 16 even with advantage.

LAURA: Ha!

MATT: Just slamming a greataxe over Trinket's armor, Trinket–

LAURA: Trinket's yawning.

MATT: Bear against you, Keyleth, that's going to be a natural 20 with the bite.

MARISHA: Ouch.

MATT: And natural 20 with the claws. Two natural 20s in a row, that bear wanted a piece of you.

MARISHA: Keyleth was like, aw, cute. (screams)

MATT: 18, 24. We're looking at 30, no, 42 points of damage on you in your elemental form from the bear.

MARISHA: Damn.

MATT: Bear bites into you and takes a mouthful of stone and tears a chunk out of the front of your sternum area and then with its claw swipes across your face, ripping part of your elemental jaw, exposing a little bit of soft earth beneath.

LAURA: Soft earth.

LIAM: That was your good jaw.

MATT: The other large orc, the larger one with its axe is going to take two attacks with its greataxe against you. That is a 21 to hit and an 18 to hit.

MARISHA: Wait, I'm getting attacked by someone else, too?

MATT: Yeah, the other large orc there.

MARISHA: Yeah, both of those hit.

MATT: All right. You take 24 points of slashing damage as both of the greataxe blows come on from the other side, you're being–

MARISHA: 24?

MATT: –chiseled down now. Yes. That's going to end their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Have I freed them from their shackles?

MATT: We'll say as your action this turn, you will have been able to get them both out of their rope-binds, including the one that has the broken arm.

SAM: Okay. The construction of the tent, can I lift up the back and shuttle them out that way, or do I have to cut through it or anything?

MATT: It's not– the back flap is currently hit into the ground with a stake. It shouldn't be too hard to lift it up if you want to try.

SAM: I don't want to waste too much time in there. You know what, I'll walk them out the front door, point them towards the mansion. And say: run, do not walk, to my beautiful, beautiful house.

MATT: Which way do you want to go?

SAM: To the right, stage right when I get out?

MATT: So right there? Okay.

SAM: Just enough to get them around the tent, yeah, and on their way.

MATT: They come out, seeing all the action happening, looking really nervous. Give you a nod, and the woman says, “Thank you.” And they both turn, and if you point out the shimmering light, they (running) and bolt off spending the entirety of their round–

SAM: And I yell to them, wipe your feet before you go in!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, they won't quite reach the door, but they're on their way out.

SAM: That's pretty much all I can move, you think?

MATT: From there, yeah. Tiny gnome feet.

SAM: Okay. Do I have a bonus action?

MATT: You do.

SAM: All right. I will– I can only really see Keyleth around, right? Everyone else is hiding?

MATT: You don't see– well, you see Pike, because you're running behind. Pike is not making any tink-tink-tink. Behind you, you can see Grog in a frenzy.

TALIESIN: I'm hidden by Keyleth.

MATT: Yeah, you can't see Percy.

SAM: I will inspire Keyleth as my bonus action, I will sing to her, (singing) her blood runs cold, her memory has just been sold, my druid is a centerfold, druid is a centerfold. I don't know.

(laughter)

MATT: If you've ever seen an earth elemental go, huh? But you take your d10 inspiration die because it was a catchy tune, seems familiar. All right. That's going to end your turn, Scanlan?

SAM: That's it.

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: All this love for me, I'm flattered. And I would like to use all three of my frenzied rage attacks against the bear.

MATT: Go for it. First attack?

TRAVIS: First one, reckless, all three reckless, the first two normal, maybe the third Great Weapon Master, we'll see. 21.

MATT: 21 hits. Roll damage.

TRAVIS: Yes. Awesome. Six, 11, 20, that's 20.

MATT: 20. With that, you take the axe and you swing it in a wide arc across the front of the bear's body. As you hit the edge of the bone, it splinters at the impact, and its shoulder-joint is knocked out. The sword continues and cuts right halfway into its throat and actually manages to cut through a very main artery and the bear begins to bleed out on the spot, onto the ground.

TRAVIS: Is that an automatic failed constitution save?

MATT: With the constitution of the bear, no, it makes it. 14.

TRAVIS: But he's dead, right?

MATT: It is dead, the bear is no longer of the realm of the living.

TRAVIS: So I killed somebody, so I get an extra attack, correct?

MATT: You still get, it's your bonus action–

TRAVIS: Oh, it's the bonus.

MATT: Right. So unless– it's only helpful when you're not frenzying.

TRAVIS: Beautiful.

MATT: When you're frenzying you get it every turn.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I get it all the time!

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: So can I turn to my right–

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: To the next bloke.

MATT: Regular one or the war chief?

TRAVIS: The war chief, let's try the war chief.

MATT: Sure, all right. Regular attack or Great Weapon Master?

TRAVIS: Regular, because I've just got two left so we'll see how regular does.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18. Makes his constitution save. So already still wounded and bleeding from the dagger that Vax left in him earlier, you manage to take the blade down, sweeping across the front of its armor, cutting and actually destroying and causing this jagged edge to the front of its armored breastplate. Make your next attack.

TRAVIS: The third one, let's do Great Weapon Master.

MATT: Okay, go for it. With advantage.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

LIAM: Orc down, orc down!

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Okay. So roll damage.

TRAVIS: 32.

MATT: So you multiply that by two. Right? Before the modifier.

TRAVIS: Before the modifier, it was–

MATT: 2d6, which you rolled what?

TRAVIS: I rolled a 12. Or no, it was seven plus five and then my rage modifier.

MATT: Right, so it's seven times two, so 14 plus your modifier and your rage.

TRAVIS: Wow, which is ten now. And Great Weapon Master is ten.

MATT: Right. So that's plus 20 is what you're looking at on top of that.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So 14 plus 20, 34, and then roll 4d6 on top of that, Brutal Critical.

LAURA: What!

TRAVIS: Ten. No. 11.

LAURA: 12.

TRAVIS: Not 11, 12.

SAM: 47.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MATT: (laughs) Jesus.

TRAVIS: I would like to stick the hilt of Craven Edge into the snow and reach forward and grab his shoulders and pull him onto the point of the sword.

MATT: So you throw the blade down, handle-first, it falls a little bit forward. You reach forward and grab the war chief and pull him down onto the blade. He looks up at you, staring into your face the entire time as you pull him over each jagged inch of the blade.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's see the light leave those eyes.

MATT: The life expires as it falls forward on the blade. Let me go ahead and make a constitution save. That is 18, makes it.

TRAVIS: That's it, that's my turn.

LAURA: That was a good turn.

MATT: But he is done, that war chief is done. Well done. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to curve around to the front of the tent I'm at and start aiming at the larger orc who's whacking on Keyleth there.

MATT: All right, glancing at the tent by the way, you do see there are a few people in there that are still bound and shaking and trying to look out and see what's happening.

LIAM: I see them, I note them, and I'm throwing two daggers at the person attacking Keyleth, the thing.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: First one is, and I'm using– I'm going to use Luck. That's a point, straight up in the air.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Fuck, okay, the first one probably misses. 16, and I was using the minus five, so the first one probably misses, 11.

MATT: Yes, that guy right there?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, that misses unfortunately.

LIAM: All right, second one.

MATT: Or it doesn't miss, it hits him but it hits the armor plates of his full plate, it's too, or the plate of the armor it's wearing is too strong and the blade can't pierce it.

LIAM: Second one is a 26.

MATT: That does hit.

LIAM: Which hits, and since he's up against Keyleth I get sneak attack damage.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: So here comes the damage. (counting) 25.

MATT: 25. With that, the first one hits the armor and streaks off and vanishes into the snow. The guy turns around and looks over and looks at you directly, grins, shrugging off the earth elemental to his side, grabs his greataxe and begins to move forward in a direction towards you angrily. However, as you let loose the second dagger, it catches him right in the center of the face, embedding itself between his eyes, and one wanders off as the momentum carries it forward three or four steps. (thudding) And grinds its face into the ground right before reaching you, into the fire. The body catches flame as soon as it lands, collapsing into one of the campfires and it begins to burn.

LIAM: Sorry, sweetheart. And I feel the dagger go–

MATT: Yep, to the side of your Blinkback Belt. All right, do you want to stay right there? You have more movement if you want to use it.

LIAM: How much left? Like five or ten?

MATT: Three more squares, 15 feet.

LIAM: I'm going to walk up right up next to Keyleth in front of the bear. One, can I go diagonally?

MATT: Through the fire, you can if you want to.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: Make an acrobatics check, go for it.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Okay, yeah, you basically run and leap up over the body of the guy you just killed, using him as a stepping stone, and you see ash and embers (whoosh) out the side as the pressure pushes him further into the fireplace. You leap in the air, land next to the one orc that's attacking Trinket and right next to where Keyleth is currently standing as the earth elemental.

LAURA: Not unlike a raven taking flight.

LIAM: Aren't you far away?

TALIESIN: (uncannily good crow noises)

MATT: Percy, you're up. That was way too good.

TALIESIN: I've been paid good money for that.

MATT: Your turn.

TALIESIN: I can emote as a bird.

MARISHA: Whose? His.

MATT: Percy's turn, yeah.

TALIESIN: My turn. Look at that, is there only one guy standing now?

MATT: There are two guys standing right now, and a bear.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'll look at that guy who's right in front of me–

MARISHA: Two guys and a bear with Charlie Sheen, new to CBS.

MATT: Oh, disadvantage on your next roll.

LIAM: For the rest of the arc.

MATT: Percy, what've you got?

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a push shot, I haven't tried a push shot before, I'm going to do a push shot on that guy in front of me.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

TALIESIN: All right, that's 13 points of damage and he pushes directly away from me ten feet.

MATT: He does. Into the fire.

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: So it does 13 damage, runs back, falls onto the body of the other orc that's currently now engulfed in flames and catches fire himself. He takes six points of fire damage on top of that, and is currently in danger of catching fire.

TALIESIN: That's good. And then, let's see, the bear is a still a problem, isn't he?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: I'll sneak another shot at the bear.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: This is going to be a sharpshooter and a trick shot, I can't take both at the same time, can I, it's one or the other?

MATT: No, sharpshooter is your feat. Trick shot, you can't take multiple trick shots, but you can sharpshooter and–

TALIESIN: And trick shot. I'm going to sharpshooter and trick shot.

MATT: Made a mistake once, we learned.

TALIESIN: And that's 23?

MATT: 23 hits. Big bear. It's not that hard to hit.

TALIESIN: Not that hard to hit? Has to take a constitution saving throw.

MATT: That is 11.

TALIESIN: No, he has disadvantage on attacks until the end of his next turn.

MATT: Headshot?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: All right, so you go ahead and roll damage for that.

MARISHA: Is this against the bear?

TALIESIN: Yeah. 25 points of damage.

MATT: 25 points of damage. You– after you fire, the one orc stumbling back and catching flames, you turn around and look at the bear. Fire again, it strikes the front of its bony ridge on its head, where the brow line is, shattering part of the bone and causing it to rear back. Looks very disoriented. It's still angry and ready to swipe, but it doesn't really know where it's standing at the moment.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn through my action surge really quickly and reload and take two more shots. Two more sharpshooter shots, nothing fancy.

MATT: Go for it. Against?

TALIESIN: The bear.

MATT: The bear? Go for it.

LIAM: Don't be a happy bear, be a sad bear.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: That's 20 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: That actually, with that shot, you aim for the other part of the brow, release it, and with that it shatters part of the bear's face. You hit a part of the bone ridge that causes the front of the skull to break, and you can see part of its face collapses a bit as the bear, in a pile on the ground.

LAURA: No!

TALIESIN: So I have one last shot.

MATT: You do.

TALIESIN: Can I spend a grit to try and shoot the rope that's holding that guy in the tree?

MATT: Yeah. You have disadvantage if you do.

TALIESIN: Disadvantage. Grit or no grit?

MATT: Oh, oh sorry, to use a grit point…

TALIESIN: I can actually technically get advantage on the shot.

MATT: I was going to say, you could, yeah. So if you want to do that, go for it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, so I'll spend a grit point on that. Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Ah! The golden snitch.

MATT: With that, you aim, take a moment, fire the bullet. You catch it in a way where it doesn't completely cut the rope, it's one of those rare perfect shots where it takes two of the three threads that holds the rope together, as they untether, it causes his body to (creaks) and it causes him to begin to sway a little bit. As the counter-sway comes back, it snaps, and it manages to catch him to hit the edge of the tree, fall into a few branches that break his fall, and he tumbles out.

SAM: Ow!

MATT: Only taking one point of damage.

TALIESIN: Can't even kill a kitten with that.

MARISHA: Can't even kill a kitten.

MATT: That was a one in a million shot right there.

TALIESIN: No, it was a one in 20 shot.

MATT: One in 20 for you, yeah. One in a million for anybody else. But you're Percival.

TALIESIN: I'm cool.

MATT: Okay, cool. That brings us to Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Who's left alive?

MATT: There are two orcs, one that's currently on fire and down in the flame trying to pull itself up. The other is currently whaling on Grog out of anger, but is starting to look around and notice it's not a very good situation.

TRAVIS: No no, stay, we've got party favors.

MATT: Keyleth, what have you got?

MARISHA: Are we still trying to keep one alive?

SAM: Sure we are.

MARISHA: Sure. All right.

TALIESIN: I assume the one that isn't on fire, but you know, that's my opinion.

MARISHA: Yeah, sure. I want to earth glide underneath and pop up underneath of him.

MATT: This guy here?

MARISHA: The fire guy, yeah.

MATT: The fire guy. He's actually on top of another larger orc, so you burst through, the fire is destroyed and you see a bunch of the stone is thrown aside, what was the campfire has now been detonated in a burst of snow and earth. You burst out. Are you catching him?

MARISHA: Yeah. That's cool.

MATT: So you burst up, the bigger orc body then rolls off onto the ground and keeps smoldering. You catch the guy who's on fire, currently holding him above you. What are you going to do?

MARISHA: First, I want to stamp him out in the fire, in the snow, sorry. Stamp out his fire in the snow.

MATT: You're clutching him. He's flailing about in your grip. Fire's out.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to, I want to grapple onto him. I want to start dragging him over to this nearby tree.

MATT: So make a grapple check, it's an athletics.

MARISHA: Athletics?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: I've only got basic stats here.

MATT: Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.

MARISHA: Oh. 19. 20, 20.

MATT: He rolled a one. Yep. Through the flames and the chaos, he can't even resist, and you have him in a full grapple. He's not restrained, he can still attack, but he's at disadvantage on all his attacks, but he can't move, his movement is zero and you're currently holding him in place.

MARISHA: Okay. Can I start dragging him over so–

MATT: At half-speed, yeah, you've already done 20 feet to get there, so you can move him ten feet.

MARISHA: Okay. I'll slowly start dragging him to this tree over here. So we can tie him up.

MATT: One, two. That's as far as you can drag him there.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: As you're pulling him back, and he's like, (struggling noises).

MARISHA: Come on.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to turn Trinket around, he's going to attack that dude that got a hit on him. The one behind him.

MATT: Right here? Oh, the one behind him is the one that currently is being dragged away after being set on fire.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: There's one on me.

LAURA: Okay, he runs up to the one on Grog. But he moves out of the way so that I can get a clean shot on him.

MATT: Okay. Moves around.

LAURA: And he bites him and he claws him!

MATT: Go for it!

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: This is your bonus action?

LAURA: Huh?

MATT: You're giving him the attack on the bonus action?

LAURA: I still get a bonus action, he gets to attack and I get to attack.

MATT: Okay, so yeah, so you get one attack and he gets both attacks. Go for it.

LAURA: Yeah, he gets two attacks because of Bestial Fury. Gosh darn it! That one's good, okay. He bites the shit out of him.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: (laughs) “Gosh darn it!”

LAURA: What is that, 13? No, 12.

MATT: 12, all right.

LAURA: And then I'm going to shoot him from my hiding spot.

MATT: Okay. So you dart out from behind the tree and release an arrow, go for it.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Get it, girl.

SAM: Don't hit me.

LIAM: That's all right.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Great. 16 plus sneak attack. 19.

MATT: 19 points of damage. This arrow strikes him in the side of the throat, he gurgles and falls on the ground. As he's trying to grab, Trinket uses that and pounces on top and rips out, tears its throat out.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: That orc is done. Currently, at this moment, the camp is cleared out except for the one that Keyleth's currently grappling, and you guys all turn around and you can see now, there is the other tent still filled with people. The other two here disappear into the mansion's doorway.

MARISHA: (rock voice) Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, sweet, yeah, hold on. You hold one end, I'll hold the other. Wait. No, that might be something– never mind. And I take out Craven Edge. I walk up to the orc that she's holding.

MARISHA: And I put him in a nice little sleeper hold.

TRAVIS: Yeah, look, mate. So unless you want to bleed or lose the head that's attached to your body, are there more of you around these parts?

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

SAM: I don't think he can understand you, Grog.

TRAVIS: He speaks fear.

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: I get advantage on those because I–

MATT: Because of Craven Edge, yeah.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: The orc's looking at you, and while it was putting on a brave face, as soon as you approach, holding out Craven Edge, your muscles rippling with the arcane strength of the blade that his fallen friends have imbued you with, as each step happens the shadows that drift off the blade begin to drift up your arm and off your shoulder, and from his perspective the whole world goes dark around you as you take each step. And that grimace on the orc's face falls into fight-or-flight fear. He says, “No. We are the only ones. I am the only one.”

TRAVIS: Have you had any dealings with the goliaths that are in Westruun?

MATT: “We don't deal with goliaths.” Spits blood, but it can only get, with what little bit of strength it has left, only dribbles down the chin in a not-very-aggressive way.

TRAVIS: Anything else?

SAM: Yeah, we need to know, wait. Does he know anything else? Is there another camp, is there anything?

TALIESIN: No.

SAM: They just had some prisoners?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, is there any reason why I should leave you alive? (laughs) I love this question.

MATT: He goes, “No. I should go to whoever made us. I will die here with my brethren. I will not run a coward.”

LIAM: Has he seen a cave with a sphinx in it?

SAM: Yeah, sphinx?

TRAVIS: Before I dispatch you to your maker, have you seen a sphinx or a cave of magical origin around these parts?

MATT: “Rot in Kord's prison, half-giant.”

TRAVIS: And I take Craven Edge and I grab both of his ankles, and I pull them apart and I shove the blade up under his grundle, and then rip one of his legs off.

MATT: It's a horrific display. Even the earth elemental takes a step back.

TALIESIN: Cool.

MATT: Fails the constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: Yes!

LAURA: While that was going on, I wanted to run forward and work on the guy that fell from the tree. I wasn't paying attention to that.

MATT: Yeah, Pike has gone over to help, and he's pretty messed up, but Pike's already gotten to him at this point while this is happening. You come over and aid and manage to keep him from dying. He's unconscious, still, and he slowly comes to consciousness–

LAURA: Does he look like the description that we got?

MATT: Yeah, it's Cyrus. Bloodied, horribly brutalized, but alive. What's your strength at now?

TRAVIS: Plus four to attack and plus 11 for damage.

MATT: What's your strength score at?

TRAVIS: Oh, score. It is now 21.

MATT: 21, nice. Fuck, dude.

LAURA: You're stronger than Pike again.

TRAVIS: Yeah, only for a little bit.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Are there any other prisoners still tied up?

SAM: Yeah, I'm in the other tent untying them.

MATT: Yeah, there's three more in this side over here, you guys were–

SAM: Calming them down, looking for loot.

TRAVIS: 20.

MARISHA: I was going to say, before I drop my earth elemental form I start busting open some of these crates for quick lootage.

MATT: You should have a higher strength than 20 if you kept it from the last basilisk fight. Because you're 17, you got how many bonuses from that combat?

TRAVIS: Seven from– without the short rest, so it's been seven?

MATT: You've got seven bonus benefits.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So you're 24 then, aren't you?

TRAVIS: No, only 21, because it takes two to go up the thing, right?

LAURA: No–

TALIESIN: Oh boy.

MATT: Okay. So. Every time they fail a saving throw, your strength goes up by one. Every two strength, you get a bonus.

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: That's how it works.

TRAVIS: Oh. I'm at 24.

MATT: So your strength is 24.

MARISHA: (laughs) That's awesome!

MATT: Which means your overall strength bonus should be plus seven.

LIAM: Juicing, man, he's juicing.

TRAVIS: I'm going to turn that plus four to a plus seven.

MATT: Because your strength modifier normally is plus three, correct?

TRAVIS: Correct.

MATT: At 17. With every even number it goes up, and it goes up one point by each time you steal a strength. Every two that you, every time it hits an even number, 18, 20, 22, 24, the modifier goes up by one. So yeah, if you're strength's at 24 right now, your overall strength modifier is plus seven. So it would be a plus four on top of whatever your normal attacking damage was already.

LAURA: Wow.

TALIESIN: So your strength saving throw goes up by one.

TRAVIS: So plus four is correct. I had plus four down. Okay, got it. Got it, got it, got it.

MATT: Plus four on top of what you had normally, yes.

TRAVIS: On what I had normally.

LIAM: Let's get this camp cleared and get these people inside Scanlan's love shack.

MATT: As you're untying them, they're all, “Thank you, thank you so much, they took us in the night, we didn't know, we thought we were dead.” And some of them start breaking down into tears. There's a little girl in there that amongst everyone is probably the most stalwart, and is trying to calm one of the men that's sobbing, she's like, “It's okay, it's okay.” And is patting him on the shoulder.

MARISHA: It's always the kids, man. It's always the kids.

LAURA: Are you survivors of Westruun?

MATT: “Yes. We were up by the base and they came in the night and they killed my wife and they took me. They took everything.”

LAURA: You're safe now.

MATT: “Thank you.”

LAURA: As is your camp.

MATT: “Thank you.”

TRAVIS: If I could ask, have you seen– fuck, Wilhand?

SAM: Wilhand?

TRAVIS: Yeah, Wilhand. Yeah.

LAURA: Small, older, gnomish fellow?

MATT: The little girl pipes up and goes, “Yeah, yeah, Wilhand. He was as tall as me.”

TRAVIS: I drop down to my knees. You seem very brave. Do you know where Wilhand has gone?

MATT: “I haven't seen him since we left town.”

LAURA: So he stayed in the town.

MATT: “I haven't seen him outside of it.”

SAM: Oh, the town. We were in the camp. Okay.

LAURA: What's your name, darling?

MATT: “Vanessa.”

LAURA: Vanessa. You're very strong, Vanessa.

MATT: “Thank you. You're very strong too.”

LAURA: Oh, well, thank you. Do you like bears? Not those scary ones but really nice ones?

MATT: And you see she's a little– bears are a rough subject for her, she's probably seen them eat a few people she knew.

LAURA: Trinket sits back. He's friendly.

TRAVIS: He's super cuddly. And I run over and I put Trinket in a headlock and give him a noogie. See? Totally nice.

MATT: Trinket breaks free and licks you right across the face, your beard up to the side again.

TRAVIS: Here we go again.

MATT: She chuckles.

MARISHA: I drop elemental form and start helping Pike heal whoever needs healing.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I go for that circlet that was on the war chief.

TRAVIS: Oh, good call.

LIAM: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LAURA: I inspect it first.

LIAM: We should bury the dead. There's piles of dead, we should bury them.

LAURA: Was it human bodies or animal bodies?

MATT: They were human bodies.

TRAVIS: Yeah, of course, you're right.

LIAM: We'll put them in the pit and then we'll cover it up. Gimme a hand.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Whatever you need.

MATT: The rest of the people, while you guys are doing this, have been escorted into the mansion. They're all in there being cleaned up, the servants are tending to them, and I mean, they'll be shat out of there in 24 hours, but–

SAM: It's fine. They'll have a good night's sleep.

MATT: At this point you hear a voice in the distance say, “Hey! Is everything all right?”

LAURA: Oh, quite, come on over!

MATT: Walking out from behind a tree, a one-armed man. He comes running over. “I heard a lot of craziness going on. Those– you did good, saw a little bit of it.”

SAM: Did you have to use your dagger at all?

MATT: “No, but I kept it there just in case.” And he's still clutching it in his hand.

TRAVIS: There's one standing behind you right now.

MATT: (yelps) Spins around and swings it, loses his grip of it, and it (dagger flying) into the tree, and he's like, runs over, grabs it.

TRAVIS: Nobody saw that. Totally cool.

MATT: “Okay, thank you.” So you guys begin taking the bodies over and putting them into the pit on top of the orc that you blew most of the forehead off of.

TALIESIN: Two orcs, what did we, two–

MARISHA: Two dryads.

TALIESIN: Two dryads, two orcs.

LAURA: The circlet?

MATT: Well, the dryads have vanished by now at this point, the magic. You inspect the circlet, the circlet is more of adornment, looks like it was a symbol of power, does not appear to have anything magical about it, but the uncut gem in the center appears to be a raw ruby, probably worth about 150 gold in its current form. You also find on their bodies overall, from the ones that you have access to, an additional 230 gold pieces. And amongst the goods that have been gathered here, if you should wish to return them or keep them for yourself, there is roughly 700 gold pieces amongst the other bits of dried food, starting-to-rot vegetables.

SAM: There's a couple boars, right?

MATT: There are a couple boars that were dragged in, that have been killed.

TALIESIN: Let's eat the food that won't last and return, cook the boar and return.

MATT: There is one unspoiled fire.

MARISHA: Yeah, can we take a short rest?

TALIESIN: We can also bring the food into the mansion and let the help cook it.

SAM: That's true. How about the casks, what's in the casks?

MATT: There are four casks of varying size, there are two large, large casks, there's one giant grain barrel, there's one barrel that appears to be of a standard ale, and there are two smaller wine barrels. Only one of them appears to be labeled, or at least hasn't been fully rubbed off. They're nothing special, these are probably grabbed by whoever ran a tavern in Westruun and took what they could during the chaos.

TRAVIS: All ale and wine is special.

MATT: Fair enough.

SAM: We should take that, and wait, this meat, don't we have a cold bag? Don't we have a cooler?

TRAVIS: We do!

SAM: Let's keep some meat.

TRAVIS: That nothing is in!

LAURA: No, we do have some stuff in it.

TRAVIS: Some stuff is in it!

SAM: Keep some grain and meat or something.

LAURA: All right, yeah, I'm keeping some boar meat.

MARISHA: But seriously, I eat some because I'm– Keyleth's a little hungry.

LAURA: I thought you were a vegetarian.

MARISHA: No, never said that.

TRAVIS: Can I try and roughly butcher this boar?

MATT: You've done it pretty well. You butcher the boar, there's already a stump set up for you, previously used for not quite as humane reasons, but you manage to prepare the boar, cook it over the area here. As the sun slowly begins to set, you guys take your short rest. Is everyone taking a short rest?

TRAVIS: Not me, not me.

MATT: Okay, so you maintain your damage, you still maintain your–

SAM: Wait, the sun is setting, are we taking a short rest or a long rest? Are we spending the night?

LIAM: Can't we go in your house?

SAM: Of course we can, yeah. Are we going to spend the night? What time is it?

MATT: It's about five o'clock in the afternoon.

SAM: Oh, little early.

LIAM: Let's pack it in early. Who knows what'll happen tomorrow?

SAM: Are we going up to the mountain?

LIAM: Yeah, tomorrow morning.

SAM: All right. Do we need to scout up? How far to the mountaintop?

TALIESIN: We're not going to the mountaintop.

SAM: Or the glowing place.

MATT: Where the beacon is? Keyleth would be the one that knows, since she's the one who marked it. It's probably about an hour and a half's travel on foot to get there.

SAM: We should go check it out before we go to bed, swing by on a broom or something.

LAURA: I like it. I'll hop on the broom.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Wait, check it out and then? Your door is stationary, though, right?

MATT: The door is stationary, the door is on the outside of this camp.

TRAVIS: But everybody inside's safe.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Do it.

LAURA: Can I stealth in the air?

MATT: Not really.

LAURA: Can I wrap myself in like my–

TRAVIS: What? Aluminum foil?

MATT: I mean, you will make a stealth check.

LIAM: You'll figure this broom out eventually.

MATT: I'm going to put it at disadvantage because you are, it's possible, but you're also a giant rocketing half-elf in the sky.

LAURA: I'm not that giant, okay?

TRAVIS: Wow. Wow.

MATT: Roll disadvantage.

LAURA: So I usually get advantage, so I'll just roll regular.

TRAVIS: I love your broom rolls so much.

LAURA: Oh! Oh! You know what, I still have Pass Without a Trace, because I never cast Hunter's Mark to break that concentration.

LIAM: You nerd.

TRAVIS: I would not remember that shit.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. All right. Cool. Don't forget your point of exhaustion, Grog. From the end of the frenzied rage.

TRAVIS: Yes, thank you.

SAM: I'm going to go with her. You're going on the broom? Yeah, I'm going to turn into a mangy crow that looks like it would be with a witch.

LAURA: I like it. (cackles)

SAM: I'll Polymorph.

MATT: Polymorph. You follow her as a crow.

SAM: And I perch on her shoulder. (crow sounds)

TALIESIN: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)

SAM: Thank you!

MATT: That's so creepy.

TALIESIN: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)

MATT: Perfect.

SAM: Wow. Thank you.

MATT: So as you continue cresting over the top of the tree ridge, heading towards the direction that Keyleth points out to you, you guys swoop down. As the treeline comes to an end, the snow begins to subside and you reach the base of the Stormpeak. There, make a perception check, both of you, actually.

SAM: Mine sucks. Natural one.

LAURA: I'm so scared of all my dice right now.

MATT: What you got?

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay.

LAURA: Oh wait! Favored terrain.

MATT: Mountains?

SAM: You're in the air, though.

LAURA: Forest at the edge of the mountain.

MATT: Does not pertain to the forest, more of it's the mountain.

LAURA: Okay. 17.

MATT: 17, okay. As the sun finally hits the edge of the mountain range and begins to set, and the light's starting to diminish, you're having a hard time picking out details. You know the general vicinity that Keyleth pointed at you, it takes longer than you anticipated, but eventually you come– and there are a few small caves and entrances to the side of this mountain, but after you sweep past once or twice, doing a couple loops, one catches your eye. You look at it from this vantage point. It looks like a small inlet, like a cavern. As you get closer, unlike the other rough entrances, this one seems intentionally carved in the mountainside in a triangle. Directly about 30 feet to its peak, there is a triangular entrance to the very very base of this mountain that is recessed into the mountain rock itself.

LAURA: I don't think we should land on the ground, we should just stay above.

SAM: (crow sounds)

TALIESIN: (realistic crow sounds)

LAURA: You can't talk when you're a bird?

MATT: He cannot.

LAURA: Oh. This is really smart, you coming, because we can't do anything. Do you want to pop out of that, can you pop back in? One caw for yes, two caws for no. You can't even understand me right now? This is ridiculous.

SAM: I don't know, can I understand her?

MATT: You can understand her, yeah.

SAM: I'm just fucking with her, then.

(laughter)

MATT: But she doesn't know if you understand.

LAURA: I float down gracefully on the broom and give it a little bit of a closer look.

MATT: Okay. As you pull down to the edge of the tunnel, the cavern entrance, you can see the relatively worn, through time and weathering, the structure of the tunnel, even though it is intentional, it has been there for a long time, and you can see the effect that time has had on it, from what was once a very pristine entrance. Looking inside, it goes dark about 25 feet in. Do you want to step further into the cavern?

LAURA: No no no, I'm still in the air, I'm not on the ground.

MATT: Okay, so yeah, looking inside about 25 feet past, what little bit of daylight that still exists disappears into the shadow of the cavern, you don't know anything beyond that.

LAURA: What do you think, Scanlan? Back up a little bit and shoot a flaming arrow into that?

SAM: (caws)

LAURA: Sweet. I back up a little, far distance away, and shoot a flaming arrow into it.

MATT: Okay, so you pull out your arrow, the shaft ignites as you release it. It arcs forward and it lights up a little bit of the tunnel around it, tunnel continues–

LIAM: Good aim from the broom?

MATT: Decent aim.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: I mean, it's not a wide target, she's shooting it into an open 30-foot space.

LAURA: And it's not moving, it's not fucking moving right now.

LIAM: I've watched Harry Potter, they always have two hands on the broom.

LAURA: Why are you trying to do this to me right now? Why you got to be a player hater?

LIAM: Because it's fun.

MATT: From the narrative standpoint, it's fine. She could take another shot and it would make it there anyway. You can see it go through, and it arcs and then disappears. You see what looks like an edge, and it vanishes past it.

LAURA: Well. That looks deep. I don't think we should check this out on our own.

SAM: Might be fun.

LAURA: You're a bird, you could probably fly in and fly back out.

SAM: Sure. (caws) Okay, I'll fly in.

MATT: Okay. You head down, coasting into the darkness. Does your form have–

SAM: I have darkvision, I don't know what crows have.

MATT: If you have darkvision. But you, crows–

SAM: I don't know what a crow has.

MATT: I will look it up real fast.

TALIESIN: I don't think a crow has darkvision.

MATT: Hold on, hold on.

TRAVIS: They're dark as night, man, of course they do.

SAM: Are they daytime birds? They're daytime birds. They're not owls.

TALIESIN: They're not owls.

SAM: Shit.

LAURA: Should've been a fucking owl.

TALIESIN: (owl sounds)

SAM: You can do that too? Quick, do a nightingale.

MATT: No, you do not have darkvision as a–

SAM: So I'm just flying around in the dark knocking into things.

MATT: Yeah. Essentially, you coast into the shadow, hitting a couple things. You eventually hit ceiling.

SAM: Ow!

MATT: And coast down and you land harshly, taking three points of damage in your crow form as you hit and land and tumble down a few stairs.

SAM: Ooh, stairs.

MATT: At that point, you're in complete darkness right now, you can see a faint distant bit of light that's barely creeping in from the entrance you came from. Around you, though, nothing.

SAM: I'll break form and come back as Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. You come back as a gnome. Now your darkvision kicks in and indeed you can see there is a smoothly carved tunnel overhead that descends down a long flight of stairs. Make a perception check.

SAM: Natural 18.

(laughter)

MATT: And you have 60-foot darkvision? As a gnome?

SAM: It just says darkvision. I didn't write down the distance.

MATT: Okay, I'm going to look this up real fast. Because this is important to know for this circumstance.

LIAM: By the way, blackbird has a hit point of one, so technically you popped back into gnome form the second you hit the ground.

MATT: Does it actually have one hit point?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Then yeah.

MARISHA: Darkvision is 60 feet, I wrote it down.

SAM: 60 feet. I'll write it down for the future.

MATT: There you go. So yeah, your vision just hits the edge of the staircase, which stops, and then continues forward. The darkness beyond there is obscured, or a hint of blue light that slightly shifts and glimmers beyond your vision. It seems like the tunnel ceiling ends as the path continues beyond that, and your vision is cut off beyond that. You cannot see, but you do see a very very faint blue shimmer coming from the tunnel beyond.

LAURA: I float up to the edge of the mouth of the cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan?

MATT: (echoes) Scanlan, Scanlan, Scanlan.

SAM: Wow, I've always wanted that to happen.

MATT: (echoes) Happen, happen–

LAURA: (whispers) Are you alive?

SAM: Can I see down the blue thing?

MATT: You can go down further if you want to.

SAM: I don't want to go to where the blue is, I just want to see if I can peek down there?

MATT: You'd have to descend the stairs to. Because the actual tunnel continues down along with the roof and then as it continues past, it levels off.

SAM: I'm going to die. I'm going to shoot one single Magic Missile into the space.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

LAURA: What if that's his face?

MATT: All right, so you take the wand, and the Magic Missile, which gives a very faint candlelight glow around it as it is a burst of arcane energy, arcs down and slams into the stonework and filters out. The little flash you see at the base of the stairway, the stonework there is like a tiled square stonework, it looks like the further you descend, the more and more there is a constructed architecture to this place, however, the missile dashes against the stone tile floor at the bottom of the stairway. No other seeming reaction, that same blue glimmer unchanged.

SAM: Okay. I quickly pee a little on the side of the wall, just a little bit, okay. Zip up, turn into an owl and get outta there. At level five, because I'm out of level four.

MATT: Okay, so. (hooting) An owl ascends quickly and spooks you.

LAURA: I stay at the mouth of the cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan, are you alive?

MATT: (echoing) Alive, alive, alive.

LAURA: (whispers) Scanlan?

MATT: (echoing) Scanlan, Scanlan.

LAURA: Wait. Scanlan! Is that you? You were a crow.

SAM: (confused hooting)

LAURA: Okay. That's you. Should we go?

TALIESIN: You're just turning your head 180 degrees back and forth, aren't you?

SAM: Oh yeah.

LAURA: We should go back. One hoo for– I start flying back.

MATT: Vex takes off on the broom. All right. You guys head back to the camp, make your way into the mansion, and rest for the evening. You don't rest for the evening?

TRAVIS: No.

SAM: What?

LAURA: You're exhausted.

TRAVIS: I have one level of exhaustion, I'm okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend a little time tinkering before I sleep, working on the broom.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I never stopped digging, can I assume that everybody's buried?

MATT: At this point in time, yeah. By the time they've been gone, everyone's been buried, everyone's been taken care of, and you make your way back, waiting at the door for your sister to return.

TRAVIS: What's the second level of exhaustion?

MATT: Yeah, so yeah, for not taking your evening's rest you get a second level of exhaustion and your speed is halved.

TRAVIS: Okay. I want to see how far this can go. I want to push this.

TALIESIN: I've tried this experiment in real life. It never ends well.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I'm willing to learn.

MATT: Okay. So we'll go ahead and take a break as the party is resting for the evening, we'll be back here in a few minutes, guys, to continue this next chapter of Vox Machina's adventure. All right, see you in a little bit.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Hey guys, welcome back. So. Kicking into high gear to return to the game as it's going. You guys go through your restful evening, except for Grog, resting up and getting prepared for whatever comes your way, except for Grog. As you spend the night fending off sleep, staring at Craven Edge there on your lap, feeling the cold blade against your fingertips and considering and still feeling the strength that it's imbued upon you pulsing through your veins.

TRAVIS: Yeah, could I ask it one question?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

TRAVIS: Right, it was a good day, right? Like, superb.

MATT: “Yes.”

TRAVIS: Do you remember your former owners?

MATT: “I do.”

TRAVIS: Do you remember Lord Briarwood?

MATT: “I do.”

TRAVIS: How was he?

MATT: “He was a stalwart champion. He kept me fed. Mostly.”

TRAVIS: Did he give you a goal? You know, before we put him into different pieces, he was, like, trying to build up this god called Vecna. You don't know anything about a god called Vecna, do you?

MATT: “Doesn't interest me.”

TRAVIS: No?

MATT: “No.”

TRAVIS: Just the blood.

MATT: “Just the hunger.”

TRAVIS: Right, the hunger.

MATT: “It's all there is, is the hunger.”

TRAVIS: But look, we did really good today. So I'm not going to go to sleep, I'm going to carry this over the next day, I want to see how hard we can push this.

MATT: “So close to being full.”

TRAVIS: You're close to being full? Hold on, how many more lives do you need?

MATT: “I'm close.”

TRAVIS: Do you know, do you know what happens when you get full? Like, do you get bigger? Do I get stronger?

MATT: “Feed me and you'll find out.”

MARISHA: Oh boy.

TRAVIS: You've got it. Can I insight check the sword?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Yes please!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I've never been so happy.

TRAVIS: (clears throat) Two.

(laughter)

MATT: It's hard to read the blade, but the disposition doesn't seem to have changed any of your previous conversations, so seems hard to read. It's a sword.

TRAVIS: Outstanding. I tell you what, if you get full, we'll celebrate this upcoming day as your birthday.

MATT: “If you insist, Grog Strongjaw.”

TRAVIS: And that'll do me for the night.

MATT: All right. You all come to, rallying your breakfast, your chicken-filled breakfast.

LAURA: And some boar!

MATT: And some boar, freshly cooked by Grog, who has some dark circles under the eyes from a night of unrestful consciousness.

LAURA: How you doing there, Grog? And I slap him across the face a few times.

TRAVIS: Really good.

LAURA: Yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I slept really hard.

LAURA: That's good.

TRAVIS: Lots of dreams.

TALIESIN: All right. Let's send our friends on their way and make our way to the cavern that you found.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we send them back towards the camp zone, right?

SAM: Yes, and they have a mapmaker with them, so they'll find it without a problem.

LAURA: They'll know how to get back.

MATT: Tyriok's like, “Yes, I can actually find our way back quite easily from this position, as we've already traveled this way and I have a good memory for these types of things. I have to.”

LAURA: Yes. Will you and Cyrus inform everyone else that it's safe for them– oh shit, we're not back, they can't go there. We'll be back, and we're going to send you to Whitestone, where you'll be safe.

SAM: Eventually. But right now, just go to your–

TALIESIN: Well, they were fine rolling around, we already sent the wounded and the young to Whitestone, they're fine.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: “All right, then, that can be done, and can I take my satchel with me in case I can find some "way to recover it?”

LAURA: Of course, it's yours, darling.

MATT: “All right.” And he takes the stone arm-slash-satchel and tucks it under his arm. “All right. Rest of you.” And Cyrus steps forward. “All right, well, lead the way.” And they all give you guys a thank-you, the little girl runs up, Vanessa, and hugs you and hugs Keyleth, and Cyrus and them pull a couple of the orcish weapons that were left behind and arm themselves. Cyrus actually takes a couple of javelins and is like, (sighs) “I think the proper way to make vengeance with these. All right, you guys stay safe.”

LAURA: You too.

MATT: “Really appreciate it.”

LIAM: Tyriok!

MATT: “Yes?”

LIAM: Could I have my loaner back, please?

MATT: (laughs) “Oh, right, right, yeah, certainly.” He pulls it out and hands it to you.

LIAM: I'll take that carefully. Thank you.

LAURA: You can keep the opal dagger I gave you.

MATT: “Oh, thank you thank you thank you so much!”

TRAVIS: (under his breath) Infertility.

MATT: Puts it back away. “I appreciate that. All right, so we'll be off?” The rest of the people nod, they take some of the supplies from the wagons, they begin making their way back on the already treaded path you guys made that Tyriok knows is safe to get out of the Frostweald.

LAURA: Scanlan, did you see how generous I was just then?

SAM: Nope, missed it.

LAURA: What's wrong, Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Did you have trouble sleeping?

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, look, the sand pit was, I think I need to comb it after you use it.

SAM: Sand pit? I have a bedroom for you.

TRAVIS: What? There's a training area downstairs just for me.

SAM: Oh Grog, you have your own bedroom upstairs. It's got a giant-sized bed in it.

TRAVIS: I haven't been using it.

SAM: Oh, for crying– I spent minutes thinking about conjuring that.

MARISHA: Grog, you did sleep last night, right?

TRAVIS: Yep. Yeah, I mean, like, I had my way with a few of those imaginary friends, because, man. No. It was good. Good sleep. Real, a little sore in my back.

LIAM: I'm going to make an insight check on Grog.

MATT: Insight check, go for it.

LIAM: Yeah. 16.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Whispers!

LAURA: Whispers about Grog?

LIAM: I've never had a whisper before!

LAURA: You've never had a whisper?

LIAM: On the show.

TALIESIN: It's warm in your ear.

SAM: I don't know what products we're selling currently, but I assume there are some.

TALIESIN: We do know that Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirts will be shipping out next week.

SAM: Oh wow! The preorder shirts?

TALIESIN: Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirt, the preorder shirt will be shipping out next week. We'll be using this time to ignore what's happening over here while the Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirts ship out next week.

MARISHA: And of course don't forget to tune in next week for our 50th episode.

TALIESIN: 50th episode. Not anniversary.

SAM: 50th episode. There's going to be special giveaways. I don't know. Is that true? I don't know.

LAURA: What, no, there's not.

MATT: So. What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Shall we? Up the mountain!

LAURA: Wait. So did we already tell everyone what we saw?

MARISHA: I'm assuming you told us when you got back.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You guys informed the party of what you saw.

SAM: There's a triangle, seems to be Ioun-based.

LAURA: Blue light.

SAM: Smells of urine inside, it's very weird.

LIAM: Scanlan, maybe not black birds for a while. All right? It's a touchy subject.

SAM: Ooh, sorry. I forgot. Well actually, no, I don't know what you're talking about.

LIAM: Stay away from black birds for a while.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Thanks, buddy.

SAM: Sure, no problem.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way southward to the Frostweald.

SAM: The Frostweald.

MATT: Frostweald? Frostwold?

TALIESIN: Frost-vield. What is wrong with– Frost-vield.

MARISHA: Frost-Willem Dafoe.

SAM: Sig-il.

MATT: I will smite you.

MARISHA: Jif.

TALIESIN: Jif. God damn it, you beat me to it.

MATT: All right. You guys continue to head south, eventually following the path that you lead along with Keyleth's directional–

LAURA: I keep an eye out for any enemies along the way.

MATT: Indeed you do, make a perception check, being the scout person for this.

LAURA: I'm going to do that with advantage because I'm in the woods.

MATT: You're in the forest, yeah, that is true.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. With that, you manage to skirt the outside of what appears to be another localized basilisk nest. You catch it early enough and guide the party around it to avoid that on your way.

LAURA: Let's go this way and then circle back.

MATT: You eventually make your way to the outskirts of the forest, the trees begin to thin out, the snow begins to melt, the temperature begins to rise somewhat. It's still cold-ish, but it's less freezing.

TRAVIS: Oh right, the Frost-weald.

MATT: Yeah, there's been a long-term enchantment over this forest that has kept it the way it is, you're not certain as to what the actual reasons are for it. Eventually, as the sun reaches not quite zenith but later morning, you find your way to the outside of this tunnel that you and Scanlan had found the evening before. There before you, you guys see the 30-foot-tall triangular entrance to this passageway deeper into the mountain itself.

LAURA: So this is the place. Technically, Scanlan flew in, so I don't think he had to check for traps.

SAM: I did not check for traps, I just flew in, but perhaps we should this time.

LIAM: Lead me in as far as you went.

SAM: If you'll check for traps.

LIAM: Yeah. Where you flew over, yeah.

SAM: Yes, let's do it.

LIAM: In the entrance and down those stairs.

MATT: All right. So go ahead and make an investigation check.

LIAM: 20. No, 17.

MATT: 17.

SAM: I will also check for traps.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

SAM: 22.

LIAM: Checking for traps, I should know this, but is that separate from perception for me?

MATT: Perception is to notice various details in here, if you're actually actively searching for trap mechanisms like that, investigation is generally more used. Yeah.

SAM: 22.

MATT: I mean, they're both pretty similar in some ways and it depends on the circumstances.

LIAM: But is it a different roll? Traps? Or is it just perception and investigation?

MATT: Perception and investigation, depending on the circumstance, one or the other. For the most part, perception would be like if you notice something wrong about the room, you'd be like, that stone seems different, then you would do investigation to try to find out what type of trap it is per se, or if you were actively searching for traps, that would be more of an investigation, like knowing where you've seen around, and seeing the terrain to possibly facilitate something like that.

LIAM: It's only my third year doing this.

MATT: I know, it's all good. What did you have again?

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22. All right. As you guys slowly descend the steps, as you get about 25, 30 feet into the tunnel before it lowers into these stone steps, and they're rather large steps. Each spread of your gait is wider than the common step, and these have been around for a very long time. You can see where the corners are, they're rounded. Looks like at points in time there may have been flooding in this area that has caused that type of softening of the stonework at the tip, though the little bit of moisture that's in this area seems to be from blown-in snow possibly or another source you don't currently see. It is pitch-dark in here, if anyone would like to–

TRAVIS: I have darkvision.

MATT: He has darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision. Absolutely blind.

LIAM: I'm pulling out Flametongue dagger.

MARISHA: Then I'll light up my hands a little bit.

MATT: Okay, so you guys have a low candlelight, so it gives you a little bit of vision, but it's still very, very dim. You guys make your way down the stairway, step to step, and you can hear each footstep echoes as you continue downward. It progresses deeper and deeper and you begin to see this gentle blue flickering light at the very bottom of the staircase as it begins to approach, and your eyes have adjusted to the darkness at this point in time.

LAURA: Does it look like water reflection?

MATT: It looks like it could be some sort of water-like movement, and as you hit the bottom of the stairway and it evens out into these square stone tiles across the way, you see ahead of you what looks to be a singular circular room with no exits from what you can tell at this point. Just a circular room that loops around, and in the center there is a ten-foot pool of a still, somewhat still surface of water. There is a little bit of movement because there is some sort of a cold breeze that was ejecting out of the tunnel, but there is no real source of the wind that you can pick up at the moment.

LAURA: Can I investigate the walls? Did you already check for traps in this room?

LIAM: I did an investigation check.

MATT: As you entered this room?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll do it again here.

MATT: That was when you guys were going down the stairway, go ahead and make the roll.

LIAM: I'm going to use Luck.

SAM: I got a 24.

MATT: 24, okay.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay. The two of you, there is a very, very faint blue glow that is emanating from below the surface of the water that is giving this very, very tiny bit of light to the room. Thankfully because most of you are darkvision-based, it doesn't impede you from seeing all the details in the room. Percy, you'll still not be able to make out the fine details.

TALIESIN: That's why I'm in the back.

MATT: But between the two of you inspecting the edges, there are no seams, there are no doors, there are no other passages. You do, however, see script across the opposite side of the room that is chiseled into the stonework itself in Elvish script.

MARISHA: Oh, Elvish.

MATT: Oh sorry, this is not Elvish, Elvish was the obelisk. What languages do you–

LIAM: Common, Elvish, and Abyssal.

MATT: What languages do you know?

SAM: Gnome and Common.

MATT: It is a language neither of you know.

TALIESIN: Can I take a look at it?

SAM: You can't see nothing.

LIAM: I walk up with my dagger and hold it underneath.

MATT: Run it across?

TALIESIN: Celestial?

MATT: It is Celestial.

TALIESIN: Well, there you go.

MATT: Are you the only one that knows Celestial?

TALIESIN: I had not a lot of friends growing up, this was a lot of quiet time.

MATT: (laughs) That is okay. All right, so. Looking at this, it reads, and you read it out loud, the translation. The thing about Celestial, it's interesting, it's a beautiful-sounding language that even the translation to Common is built into rhyme. It says, “Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the water a door.”

MARISHA: Wait.

LAURA: Wait. Start at the beginning?

MATT: “Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the water a door.”

TRAVIS: Yep. So in this room, it's a circle, what's the distance across the room?

MATT: It's about 30 feet across on a side.

TRAVIS: Oh, so it's not that big.

MATT: And it's a ten-foot pool. No, it's a pretty tight space.

TRAVIS: And there's solid flooring and then the pool in the middle.

MATT: Yeah, in the middle, so you move around. So a ten-foot walkway around it.

LAURA: Can I get on the broom? And fly up above the pool of water and look down into it?

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. Looking down into it, you see no bottom. You see the glow continues downward and it's almost like there is a very soft, faint source of light in there, but the water obscures it too much to see a bottom. It doesn't disappear into darkness, which leads you to believe that it's not endless, but you can't make out any details of where it would end or how far that is from where you are. You do see what looks to be slow, shifting movement of aquatic plant life that is gathered on the edges about ten feet down and further.

MARISHA: So Percy read this out loud, right?

TALIESIN: Yes, I read it out loud.

MARISHA: Would Keyleth know anything about this as possibly being a portal to the realm of water? Can I do like a check to see if this is something that might be a–

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Not my strong suit.

TALIESIN: Good, oh!

LAURA: Oh my gosh Keyleth, you're so smart!

MARISHA: I'm so smart. Just straight intelligence?

MATT: Straight intelligence.

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: 15. There is talk of elements here, very plainly in the translation. It's possible. However, usually doorways to the planes have a very prominent magical signature to them, one that is especially, you are pretty sensitive to, being an Ashari, and that is a large part of what your people's charge is. You do not get the feeling that this pool is a gateway to another plane, per se, just a very deep pool.

LAURA: Keyleth! Use the thing to see magical runes!

SAM: Oh yeah, yeah. The chunk, the hunk.

MARISHA: Okay, I pull out my Hunk of Quall. Hunk of Quall.

MATT: Hold it up and concentrate for a moment. Doesn't seem to spark, and there doesn't appear to be a reaction.

LAURA: Really thought it was going to do something, I really, really did.

TRAVIS: Can I take a single gold coin, make a wish, and flick it into the wishing well.

LAURA: I watch it go down.

MATT: Drifts from side to side, drifts down, glimmers occasionally, drifts, and then is out of sight.

LIAM: There's a fairly good chance we need to go down through this. Grog and Keyleth? You're probably the best suited for this, you because your fucking chest is so big and you because you can turn into water.

TRAVIS: I also have two vials of breathing underwater.

LAURA: Hey, that's a good thing.

MARISHA: I also happened to pack Control Water in my bag of tricks today.

TRAVIS: You did?

MARISHA: I did.

TRAVIS: Fricking awesome.

MARISHA: When we go underground there tends to be water, so I tend to bring it.

LAURA: Should we control it, or–

MARISHA: Keyleth walks up and puts her hands in the pool.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Anything happen when I touch the water?

MATT: Your hand goes in the water. It is cold, it is in line with most subterranean pools that you've encountered. Not freezing, but very chilly. Reacts like any other water that you've encountered before. It's not particularly murky, either.

MARISHA: I dive in.

MATT: Keyleth, (splash). You dive in, pulling yourself down.

LIAM: Grog. Go with her.

TRAVIS: You got it.

MATT: Sinking down, and you can see the tunnel around you, it goes from smoother stone to a little rougher and as you descend you can see the algae and various aquatic plant matter and life that is gathered around, until eventually you go down about 40 feet or so, your feet hit the bottom, and you can see it ends behind you but then before you there is a tunnel, there is a continued walkway underwater forward.

TRAVIS: I come down behind her.

MATT: You feel the impact as Grog lands right behind you. Let me see here. What's your constitution modifier? Keyleth?

MARISHA: Not great. Two. Plus two.

MATT: Two? Okay. Yours is five, right? For the constitution modifier?

TRAVIS: Oh, sorry, no, I'm being a dickhole. It is five, yeah.

MATT: Yeah, so you can hold your breath for five minutes.

SAM: Five minutes!

MARISHA: Is that however long your–

MATT: Yeah, one minute per constitution modifier. For you it's two.

MARISHA: Interesting.

MATT: After you've landed here, you're about 30 seconds in, looking around, Grog's there.

MARISHA: How far does the tunnel look?

MATT: Make a perception check, with disadvantage because of the water distortion.

TRAVIS: Can I look everywhere except the tunnel with my darkvision?

MARISHA: Bad and bad. 16.

MATT: With disadvantage.

MARISHA: 16.

TRAVIS: Don't worry about it, it's four.

MATT: (laughs) It's not hard to see. The tunnel continues, begins to curve upward about 60 to 80 feet ahead of you. It is choked with that heavy algae slowly drifting there, but there is a path you can see to swim through where it wouldn't really stop or halt your progress. But it curves upward.

MARISHA: You want to keep going?

MARISHA and TRAVIS: (underwater blubbing conversation sounds)

MATT: You're halfway through your breath, by the way. You're now at one minute.

TRAVIS: I'll swim forward. Just to where it starts to curve up.

MATT: I'll have both you guys make athletics checks.

TRAVIS: That sucks dick.

LAURA: At disadvantage.

TRAVIS: At a disadvantage?

MATT: No, not athletics.

MARISHA: 15.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: Oh, no, you do, because you have exhaustion.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right. 12.

MATT: 12. What?

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: 15. Okay. You guys aren't having a huge issue, you get forward, you can move about half your movement forward every six seconds or so, so you manage to make your way up into the center of where the plant matter begins to grow darker and more apparent. Grog, you start making your way through. I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity save at disadvantage.

MARISHA: What? What the why? What the why?

SAM: Piranhas, that's why.

MATT: Dexterity at disadvantage because you're swimming underwater, in which movement is much harder as well.

LIAM: Ninja sharks.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11. All right.

MARISHA: Dolphins with lasers.

LAURA: It's going to be so bad.

MATT: You take eight points of psychic damage as suddenly, out of the greenish plant matter, you see these red tendrils, these red vines of algae that begin reaching out towards you. One of them brushes against your shoulder, and you feel this surge of shock energy almost travel through your nervous system to your head, and it's like you have an instantly pounding headache and you feel your muscles begin to tense up. Make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Oh god!

TRAVIS: That's a one.

(gasping)

MATT: You feel your muscles lock up as paralysis takes over. You watch as Grog suddenly tenses up, and the air that's in his lungs escapes in a big heave.

MARISHA: Upon seeing this, I reach forward and I grab hold of him and I cast Control Water and jettison the both of us out of there.

TRAVIS: If it's water.

LAURA: It's got to be water.

MARISHA: I kicked the camera, sorry.

MATT: So do you, you push yourself away, you jet? Okay.

MARISHA: I take a jet, jetting us back out. Waterslide!

MATT: So you pull him back using Control Water to shove you guys. Yeah, the water's basically pushing you forward, like an ice man waterslide, and make your way to the other side. Grog, you, that's the first round to get you to the bottom there, your constitution modifier's five, you have five rounds before you're officially drowning.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: So she pulls you in, grabs you to the bottom. You look up. Using Control Water again to concentrate, this is going to take you two rounds to get to the top because you're carrying Grog's weight.

LAURA: Can I see them coming up?

MATT: You do see the form begin, Keyleth's face begin rising to the surface. Eventually she breaks through the water, carrying Grog, who's too heavy for her, and then dips right back down in the water.

MARISHA: Help!

TALIESIN: Pull Grog.

MATT: You grab and pull Grog out and onto the edge, and he's locked in place, eyes wide.

MARISHA: Can I take the Control Water to see if I can like waterbend it out of his lungs, if there's any water in his lungs?

MATT: Yeah. As you concentrate, you pull this single strain of water out of, it's the weirdest sensation you've ever had, as the water is pumped instantly from inside your lungs.

TRAVIS: It's like a reverse beer bong.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah, it is. And the water scatters across the stonework on the side of the pool. It takes about 30 seconds before your muscles come back and all of a sudden you're–

TRAVIS: (coughing and choking)

LAURA: What the hell happened? What was down there?

MARISHA: Really nasty plants. And I go over. I'm pretty sure my Control Water lasts for a minute, yeah?

MATT: Control Water lasts for up to ten minutes. Concentration.

MARISHA: Dope. I'm going to go over, and can I start clearing the water out of this tunnel?

MATT: Where would you want it to go?

MARISHA: Out?

LIAM: Up the stairs. Behind us is stairs up.

MATT: You can't make water disappear. You can part it, you can do all kinds of things with it, the water still has to go somewhere.

LIAM: Part it. An air tunnel for us.

MARISHA: That's what I was thinking, making like an air tunnel.

MATT: Or you can redirect the flow. Up to you. What do you want to do? The abilities you have to choose from are part water, redirect flow, whirlpool, but that's not really in your realm, or flood.

MARISHA: And how big was this tunnel?

MATT: All the way across, I'd say it's about 25, 20 feet across.

MARISHA: That's a big tunnel. I'll part it.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you dive back down? When are you starting to part it?

MARISHA: I yell to everybody else and I say, there's a tunnel through to the other side. Let's go. And I jump in and I'll sink and I'll start parting the water behind me.

MATT: All right. So.

MARISHA: Or, let me see, let me sink to the bottom and then I'll part the water in the tunnel straight ahead.

MATT: Okay. Do you guys follow suit?

TALIESIN: I follow.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Are we diving into water or parted water?

MATT: You're diving into water right now.

MARISHA: And before I jump in, I say, don't touch the plants on the edge.

LIAM: So we're going through water to get to air.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's what I'm hoping for, yeah.

LAURA: Is it a fast drop, or do we float down with that water?

MATT: You float down, because she didn't part the water of the top of the tunnel, you guys float down at a natural pace, eventually touching the bottom of the subterranean tunnel, holding your breath. Keyleth moves her hands this way and the water in the center of the tunnel actually parts almost like a bubble in front of you.

LAURA: Nice!

MATT: You step into that open space now and you can breathe. You all catch yourself–

MARISHA: Let's go fast while I still have this concentration.

MATT: There's still droplets dropping around you. As you're holding it at bay and you push it off to the side, elements, a lot of the water has been forced out of the top for the time being wherever you're going–

MARISHA: Sure, displacement physics.

MATT: Yeah. However, the planet life that was currently drifting freely is all to the ground, and is this giant mass of plant matter on the ground that is soaking wet and there.

MARISHA: Okay. Don't touch the plants, let's go.

LAURA: Go where?

MARISHA: Forward.

LIAM: Is it covering like a rug all in front of us?

MATT: I mean, there is plant matter all over the entire surface. It's thicker on the edges, because a lot of it dropped down on itself.

LIAM: So are we able to pick our way through?

MATT: Yeah, it looks like a bunch of wet fur on the sides. You guys begin walking, what's the marching order here? Who's going first?

TRAVIS: I'll go first because I'm at disadvantage on everything, so.

MATT: Okay. Grog goes first.

LIAM: I'll go behind Grog.

MATT: Okay. Who's after that?

LAURA: I'll go next.

SAM: I'll take Pike and go after her.

TALIESIN: I'll go behind them.

MARISHA: Following up their rears.

MATT: And Keyleth's following up the rear. Okay. Has Trinket stepped back into your necklace, by the way?

LAURA: Yes yes yes.

MATT: Okay. Just making sure.

TRAVIS: Hold it up, show him.

LAURA: He's in my necklace.

MATT: Grog, as you step past, and you're stepping with a squashing sound as your footfalls hit each of the sections of the dark brown-greenish plant matter. It's really soggy, and Keyleth, as you're concentrating, it's a lot of water to part, and you're basically creating this 20-foot tunnel. As you begin stepping across, you can see the red vines begin to pull their way out, but without the water there, they can't support the weight of the vine itself, so currently they're unable to really shift in your direction. You can see them trying, you can see the vines (slithering) in the matted mass, but they can't actually work towards–

LAURA: Can't move quickly.

MARISHA: They're assholes, don't touch them.

MATT: So as you dart across, you guys each individually make your way across the other side of the tunnel where the Control Water spell ends. You can see the curvature leading upward, there is still that barrier of water that's shimmering right there in front of you. You all eventually make it past that big central patch, and as it curves upward, you can look about 35 feet at a diagonal that way, you can see the surface of water that's where it breaks.

LAURA: Oh. Swim up.

MARISHA: Can I take the Control Water and jettison us all up like I did with Grog?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Hold on!

MATT: So you guys all take a breath as the water wall collapses behind you, rushes up, and like a water jet all of you get jettisoned out and have to catch yourself on your feet.

MARISHA: Three-point landing.

LAURA: I catch myself on the broom and I fly.

TRAVIS: I definitely roll. How does Scanlan land?

SAM: Not well.

MATT: (laughs) Scanlan's more like a waterslide, he comes out the end and feet in the air. It's fun, but–

SAM: Slip-and-slide?

MATT: Yeah! But you hit the sprinkler head you didn't know was under there. (groaning)

TRAVIS: The worst!

SAM: There's a rock.

TRAVIS: We all know what you're talking about. You haven't lived.

MARISHA: Those things are death traps, man. They're the best.

LAURA: And when they're not wet enough.

MATT: So you guys all emerge outside of this pool now. You take a moment to look around as there is no light source in this room either. Those with darkvision, you look around and you see what appears to be a smooth, marble stone floor, very intricately carved, with four pillars surrounding the exit of the pool that you guys came out of. You can see on each of these pillars, facing inward, or not inward, sorry, facing outward of these pillars, what looks to be these stone lion heads. They each face outward. The chamber is also circular, but much larger, it's actually 60 feet across, from the 30 feet of the first chamber you came to.

LIAM: Right where we are, I'm going to take my Flametongue dagger and go in a circle and detect traps. Detect some traps.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay. As you glance around with the dagger, and now that you have light as opposed to the darkvision that was before, you can see now. The room is a very deep blue cobalt marble, and the edges of each of these intricately carved pillars, where the base hits the rest of the structure, and along the walls you can see what looks like gold and platinum filigree and trim. It's a very beautifully, very elegantly built room. You look around the walls. They themselves are smooth with, once again, no door, no exit, however, you look around the outside of the pool that you came out of, and there is a three-foot-wide gold loop around it, almost like there's a big circular gold plate that surrounds the pool, and inside it is carved a language that you can't understand. You recognize it again as Celestial.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

MARISHA: What does it say?

TALIESIN: Dagger again?

MATT: All right, this one translates to: “Betwixt the chaos, our order reigns, the ones who made us, refined the planes. As ages die–”

MARISHA: Hang on. “The ones who made us–”

MATT: “Refined the planes. As ages die, their time an ember, the four endure, the four remember.”

SAM: Aren't there four dragons?

TRAVIS: That can't be what this is about.

SAM: Why not?

MARISHA: Because we killed one of them.

LAURA: It could be four sphinxes.

TALIESIN: There's four lion heads in the room.

MATT: As you look up as well, as you glance at more of the scenery, and you put the dagger up, right above where the pool is, there is a beautiful circular mural, the size of the room itself, 60 feet across from end to end.

LAURA: How high is the ceiling?

MATT: The ceiling is 40 feet tall.

LIAM: If it's in Celestial and it says, “those who made us,” I highly doubt that the dragons are the ones that made the architects of this structure.

MARISHA: If you recall, there were also five dragons and we killed one of them already.

LAURA: Yeah, it's four sphinxes.

SAM: Four somethings in the room.

MATT: Glancing up across the mural, this beautifully painted image shows flames twisting and writhing in an arced pattern that then twist into broken rock and soil and earth and mountains that then break once again, sinking into an angry ocean, and that ocean then begins to rise into clouds into the sky, those clouds then dissipating and turning into raw flame and continuing the loop.

MARISHA: It's the water cycle.

SAM: Elements.

MATT: In the center of this loop, there is a single dark hole in the ceiling.

LAURA: I'm flying, so I'm up near it. Can I investigate it?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Careful, please?

LAURA: I'm not poking my head into it, I want to get a closer look.

TRAVIS: That's what she said last time.

MATT: Scanlan, make an intelligence check.

LAURA: Investigation or perception? You said perception?

MATT: What are you looking for?

LAURA: I just want to get a closer look at the circle.

MATT: Make it perception. I'll say sure, why not.

LAURA: 19?

MATT: Okay, glancing at the circle, I mean, it has a similar small gold band around the outside of it, but this mural is built around this central hole. It's about three feet across, it's not very big, and it goes straight up into darkness.

LAURA: It said in the previous room, “the sky is a window.” Does that pertain to this?

TALIESIN: It might.

MARISHA: It could. It said, “the water a door.”

LAURA: Which we came through.

MARISHA: Wait, and the hole is right above the water, correct?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: It lines up. It lines up.

TALIESIN: Vax, double-check the gold floor, I'm not–

LAURA: Are there any runes on the gold around that circle on the ceiling?

MATT: Looking around the gold itself, no, but you're looking at the actual mural itself this close up, there is a texture to the painting itself, and you can see embedded within elements of the actual brushwork and where the flames meet the rock, you can see hidden lines. With what appear to be very very faint runes.

LAURA: Is it the same language that was around the–

MATT: It's a language you don't understand. This is not a spoken language. What languages do you know?

LAURA: Abyssal, Draconic, Elvish–

MATT: These are rooted in Draconic. Very ancient, this is the basis of what most arcane runes are created from, as Draconic is the base root of arcane writing. None of them spell anything you understand with your knowledge of Draconic, however that is the base root of this writing, as ancient as it is.

LIAM: Pike? Does this mean anything to you?

SAM: By the way, Matt, I rolled my second natural one of the night for my intelligence check.

MATT: Okay. You have no idea what this is about, yeah.

SAM: I'm trying to get water out of my ear.

MATT: Pike's looking up and says, “This is beyond me, this is very old.”

MARISHA: Does this harken back to anything that we remember about the telling of the Spark, or the Second Spark?

MATT: You know, I'm going to make a religion check with her. Not bad. She goes, “Best I can gather, these represent the elemental chaos, and the center is the prime, our world, that was crafted out of that chaos when the gods came, just like we were told at the Platinum Sanctuary. That's what you told me you found there.”

MARISHA: All of the elemental realms overlap, which create our realm. Which is why there's gateways.

TRAVIS: Can I walk over to one of the pillars?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Is it covered with anything?

MATT: They're all the same, and they all have that giant gold stone lion head facing outward from each of the pillars.

TRAVIS: Is there writing or anything fancy on the pillar?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: I grab the Hunk of Quall and I float it up to the ceiling.

MARISHA: I gave Vex the Hunk of Quall.

TRAVIS: Hey! 15 with a minus two.

MATT: Nothing really catches your attention.

TRAVIS: Can I knock on it?

MATT: Solid. Cobalt marble.

TALIESIN: The lion heads. Do they have open mouths or closed mouths?

MATT: The mouths are closed. You take the Quall–

LAURA: I take the Hunk up to the ceiling.

MATT: All right. What are you doing with it?

LAURA: How did you make this work, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Just hold it out like you're searching for a signal.

MATT: Okay, you hold it up, and you see the bauble glows ever so faintly, and whenever you drift it over the mural, all the runes that are within a foot of it slightly glow as it passes over them, almost like a blacklight. It reveals them ever so faintly.

LAURA: Does that mean these are magic? I can't remember what this thing does.

MARISHA: Yeah, it means that there's magical essence, it finds magic.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take some of the water from the pool, and I'm going to bring it to one of the columns and dash it on the column and see what happens.

MATT: Okay. You take the water–

TALIESIN: On the, yeah, the water column.

MATT: You throw it on the column that matches the water overhead. You feel this slight grinding shift of stone.

LAURA: Wind blows! Fire burns!

TALIESIN: Really? Really? We had to bring it there? Really?

MATT: You glance around and the lion's mouth has opened.

MARISHA: Good call, Percy!

SAM: Wait, what are the other elements? Fire, air?

LAURA: Yeah, I go over to one of the other pillars and blow on it, the one under the air part.

MATT: Same crumbling sound of stone and the mouth of the lion is now open.

TRAVIS: Ooh, ooh, fire, fire!

LIAM: I use the Flametongue dagger.

MATT: As you brush it across the pillar, once again, the lion mouth opens on the outside of the pillar.

LAURA: How do we do earth?

SAM: She's an earth elemental, or she can do earthy things.

MARISHA: Well, I Druidcraft some earth and start wrapping it around the pillar.

MATT: Okay. You create this little burst of soil, this little knob of wet mud and clay, and you circle it, smear across the side of the pillar. The fourth mouth opens. There's a low rumble. Suddenly each mouth of the lion begins to pour a constant cavalcade of sand. The pool immediately fills up, you guys noticing, this room, as wide as it is, across the way other holes have opened up in the side and sand is pouring in.

LAURA: Oh shit. I fly up into the hole in the ceiling–

TRAVIS: Oh! A fucking hourglass?

(yelling)

LAURA: I fly up into the hole. I drop the endless rope down from the hole as I'm flying it up so there's a rope in the middle of the room; so that everybody can go for, I'm flying up–

SAM: If the sand fills up, we can ride the sand up to the hole.

MATT: So you ride up through the top, you go up about 60 feet to the very top before you get there. You have to take a second to go ahead and rummage and find the rope. The rope is on you at all times?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Not in the Bag of Holding?

LAURA: No, it's on my cloak. Rope of Infinite Twine.

MATT: Right, it's a robe. It's–

TRAVIS: It's a robe, it's not a rope. It's from the inside of a robe or jacket.

MATT: A pocket on the inside of the robe.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: So. You would have to get that from Grog first, it was probably in the Bag of Holding.

LAURA: Fuck! All right, fine, I fly back down– Gimme gimme gimme the rope.

TRAVIS: I give it.

MATT: Okay, at this point the sand has now come up to your knees, waist area, and you're having to climb out and get on top.

LIAM: Scanlan, grab your horn, call out, say that Osysa sent us.

LAURA: I tell him to hold on to one end as I fly up.

LIAM: Don't you have a cone?

MATT: The weight of both of you across it, especially with your weight, the broom (pff).

LAURA: I let go, the rope should be coming out of the robe.

MATT: Right, okay. I thought you were trying to lift him up with you.

LAURA: No no no, I'm trying to let the rope out as I'm flying up.

MATT: Okay. You pull up and you come off the top again into this chamber that leads into it. You can see with what your vision is a tunnel that leads ahead to a set of double metal doors.

LAURA: Is there anything to tie rope off onto?

MATT: No.

LAURA: What about the doors? Are there handles?

MATT: From what you can look over there, no. They are solid metal.

LAURA: Shit.

LIAM: Scanlan, can I borrow your horn? Your cone?

SAM: Yes, I can yell.

MATT: At this point, about half the room is filled now.

TALIESIN: Okay.

LIAM: I grab Scanlan's horn. Osysa sent us, can you hear us?

MATT: You hear that voice echo up through.

MARISHA: Gather close next to me, who's close nearby? I do a Wall of Stone as a pillar and pillar us up towards the hole.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Elevator time.

MATT: It is a three-foot-wide hole. You'll be able to fit one person through there.

MARISHA: Can I at least rise us up to where we're close and we can get there?

MATT: Okay, yeah, so.

MARISHA: Where we're up and out.

MATT: So you get up out of the sand, now you guys have been climbing up best you can, but as the nature of sand you're still pulling in, as it's pouring in now, you see now, parts of the ceiling are starting to open.

LAURA: Keyleth! Do you have the Immovable Rod?

MARISHA: I do have the Immovable Rod.

LAURA: I fly down and I grab the Immovable Rod.

MARISHA: Here, catch, yeah, take it!

MATT: Okay, you grab the rod. You fly up, you take the rod and you set it in place there.

LAURA: Tie the rope onto it.

MATT: Tie the rope onto it. All right. At this point now the sand's pushed up. You guys are on the last ten feet before it hits the ceiling.

LAURA: Climb it, climb it.

TALIESIN: Climbing, climbing the rope, climbing the rope.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to go and turn into a bird.

LAURA: Can I fly back down and grab Scanlan?

SAM: I'm okay.

LAURA: Well I go down and I grab Pike then and I go up on the broom.

MATT: Okay. Pike goes, “Thank you!” You grab her and she holds onto the edge of the broom and you guys make it up that way. No, since the hole is just small enough where you pretty much have to go through single-file, so nobody else can climb while you're doing that. You guys go through, who's coming up first?

MARISHA: I'm flying.

MATT: You fly up after them. Who's going up first?

TALIESIN: I'll go up next.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Athletics or acrobatics?

MATT: This would be athletics, because you're climbing a rope, a tiny–

SAM: The hole, is it triangular?

MATT: No, it's circular.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: 19, okay. Making your way up. It's a long pull.

TALIESIN: I'm going to Batman.

MATT: All right. Who's up next?

LIAM: I'd like to use acrobatics to ignore the rope and use the sides of this little tunnel to do that going up.

MATT: Okay, okay, go ahead and do that.

LIAM: That is 25.

MATT: 25, okay, that keeps you going. So you guys get up a third of the way, who's after you?

SAM: I guess I'm climbing the rope. There's a rope, yes? Climbing that rope.

MATT: Yep. Make an athletics check.

SAM: Okay. 17.

MATT: 17, okay. You guys are all making it up, you get about a third of the way up, I need the three of you to make your checks again, as it is a very tight space and it's a very, very heavy pull up. You're just like–

LIAM: 25 again.

MATT: 25 again. Awesome.

SAM: 13.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 23. You guys make it up two-thirds of the pathway, now. You can see now the sand has reached the bottom, and at this point, you guys who made it up to the top, you look up as you notice part of the stonework above goes (fwsh) and sand begins to now fall directly on top of you guys, pushing past you. I need you guys to make one more check, with disadvantage because of the sand, because that was what the time limit was going to do.

MARISHA: It's gone, it's gone!

MATT: As soon as the timer went out, that was when the top one went boom, and capped off the top.

SAM: This is an athletics check?

MATT: This is athletics, yeah.

TRAVIS: No, not 27, 24.

MATT: 24. Right, this is you coming up from the bottom. So you make it up a third of the way now. What'd you roll with dis–?

SAM: 17.

MATT: 17 with disadvantage?

TALIESIN: 13.

LIAM: 25 acrobatics.

MATT: 25. You actually have to climb over Percy to get past, because Percy's being held up from the sand that is coming down. Grog, it's starting to catch up to you. You, I need Vax and Scanlan, you guys make it to the top and pull your weight out of the sand that's now pouring down in that tunnel.

SAM: The tunnel on top?

MATT: The top of the tunnel, yeah, you guys emerge from it and you're now inside a chamber along with Vex and Keyleth.

MARISHA: So the only people that are left are Percy and Grog?

MATT: Percy and Grog.

SAM: Pike?

MATT: Pike was brought up by Vex.

TRAVIS: Second roll was 11, 19 total.

MATT: 19 total?

LIAM: I have a regular 50-foot rope and I'm tying a loop and I'm going to throw it down towards Grog and try to get it down so he can hold onto it and help pull while he does what he's doing.

MARISHA: Can I cantrip a Gust against the sand to try and blow some of it?

MATT: It's a lot of sand, you might be able to help a little bit with your cantrip, it's more of a puff of wind than a strong force, and it's a lot of sand falling. It's not going to help tremendously on this circumstance, unfortunately, as a cantrip.

LAURA: Can I use Pike's shield and try to direct it to where some of it isn't coming–?

MATT: Sure, go ahead and make a strength check.

LAURA: Oh, maybe Pike should do it, because she's way stronger than me!

MATT: Okay. Pike's going to step forward.

LAURA: She's got 19 strength now!

SAM: Don't do this, Pike, don't do this.

MATT: “I have to do it.” She steps forward and puts her shield out. All right. She manages to direct some of the flow, which begins to spray onto the outside of the room, begins to fill up one side, however that does give a round of no disadvantage to Grog and Percy. Roll again.

TRAVIS: Except I'm exhausted, right? So I have disadvantage anyway.

MATT: Yes, you do.

TALIESIN: 17.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: You manage to make it up the rest of the way. The rope, Percy comes out. Pull him up onto the side. Pike, unfortunately, it's too much and loses it. The sand comes rushing down on top of you. What'd you roll?

TRAVIS: 21.

LIAM: I grab Grog by the beard and pull.

MATT: He's almost to the top, because you made one check, that's your second check now. Need you to make one more check now as the sand's pouring down, it's now come up to you and it's starting to grab the lower part of your legs, and you're starting to feel yourself being buried.

LIAM: I'm pulling on his beard, can I cancel his disadvantage?

MATT: The rope that came down– Roll a perception check, Grog. With disadvantage. What did you roll?

TRAVIS: Perception is four, but I rolled a 24 on my fourth–

MATT: With disadvantage?

TRAVIS and LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Nice! So you don't even see the rope that Vax dropped. It keeps in the sand. But you, grabbing onto the one that's already up there, you hand-over-hand pull up. You guys watch as the sand eventually stops, and fills the entirety of the tunnel and stops. And then (thud, slam) Grog pulls himself outside, manages to brush the sand off, it's all in his beard.

MARISHA: Grog!

TRAVIS: How about a short rest?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Anyone feel like a nap? Fucking hell.

LIAM: I start shaking out his beard and getting all the crap out.

TRAVIS: Yeah, thank you.

LIAM: And it's like, fwang!

MARISHA: I cantrip Gust, brush him off.

LAURA: I thought we were doing what we were supposed to do down there.

SAM: I think we did do what we were supposed to do.

LAURA: Jeez, it would've been better if we would've just gone up the hole.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Fuck, I've never rolled that well in my life.

MATT: That was the time to do it, man. So you guys now see there is a long stone brick hallway before you. It's solid behind you, with a little bit of sand that's now coasted from the corner after Pike had diverted it briefly. Beyond the way, about 30 feet ahead of you, you see two metallic doors that are closed.

LIAM: Traps, I'm looking for traps.

MATT: Investigation check.

LIAM: Yeah, that's good. That is a 27.

MATT: You take a moment, scanning the floor as you approach, coming up to the actual doors, you take a minute to look them over. They are not locked, nor are they trapped.

MARISHA: I never trust that. That's never been good.

LIAM: I'm going stealth.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 30 for stealth.

MARISHA: What did that riddle say? Something about a name. A name must be earned?

SAM: We're in a room with two doors? Is that it?

MATT: Correct, a hallway with two doors.

LAURA: A name is earned. Yes.

MARISHA: So maybe this is us earning our name.

LAURA: Or his name.

TRAVIS: Wait, so we went through water, we went through sand.

LAURA: Now there's fire.

MARISHA: And wind.

SAM: We haven't gone through fire or wind yet.

LAURA: That was really smart, Grog.

LIAM: Deathwalker's Ward, I'll have resistance to fire.

MATT: Okay, that would take a short rest to go ahead and set that.

TRAVIS: I'm okay with that.

LIAM: Let's sit and let Grog catch a breath, shall we?

MATT: Okay. You taking a short rest or no? Up to you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll take it.

LAURA: Does it cure exhaustion if he takes a short rest?

MATT: No, long rest cures exhaustion.

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck that shit, I'm rolling through.

MATT: (laughs) All right, you guys take a short rest, you take a breather here, if you need to use any hit dice, now you can. All right, so. Finish the short rest, you've reset your armor to fire resistance.

MARISHA: Is there any runes or anything around in this room that look like they would indicate–

MATT: In the short rest, in the time you've taken, while there were no traps in the door, you guys did notice that there is a very, very faint symbol in the metal. Very large, so at first it just seemed like it was part of the door's design, but as you step back and rest, you glance over at the door, Keyleth, looking at it from this distance, you can see the symbol–

TALIESIN: Ooh, he's got paper.

MATT: –like this. This is the symbol of Ioun. This is the ancient original symbol of Ioun. This is what is a relief in each of the doors, ever so faintly, where only at a distance would you be able to really see it.

SAM: Is it the exact same in both doors?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Not a mirror image, not one blue one green?

MATT: No, it is the exact same.

SAM: Okay. Should we open a door?

MARISHA: Well, do you want to bust out those Ioun stones you have?

SAM: Maybe there's a clue in here.

MARISHA: You also have your Ioun stones.

SAM: Yeah, but what's that going to do?

TRAVIS: In the walls and in the floors and in the ceiling, is it just the same marble and stone, are there any porous openings or–?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: What was that second line? “Knowledge dost billow–”

SAM: “All realms are the shore. The sky is a window, the water a door.”

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: Okay. Looking about, the stonework is pretty consistent here. It's old, but unlike the weathered entrance, a lot of this has not seen the elements since it's fairly buried, and even at its seemingly ancient time that it's been here, it doesn't appear to be worn, looks fairly fresh. You don't see any weaknesses, you don't see missing stones.

TRAVIS: It's stone, though, right?

MATT: It is stone, yes.

TRAVIS: Like marble, or?

MATT: No, actually, this is more old, classic granite or other deep-earth stones that are used for various forms of construction. Doesn't have any special properties that you can recognize.

TALIESIN: Well, if no one else is going to, I think it'll be funny.

LIAM: Take 20 paces back.

SAM: And do what?

LIAM: And wait for me to open the door and look in.

TALIESIN: Well, why don't I open the door and look in?

LIAM: All right. I'm a little better at being invisible, but go for it.

SAM: Which door?

TALIESIN: Both of them.

MATT: Both doors (creak) open. You look into what appears to be a, from what you can see, because there is a very, very faint bit of light emanating from his dagger, but beyond that it is pitch darkness. Percy is the one who cannot see.

TRAVIS: What do you see, Percy?

TALIESIN: I see a door that I have conquered.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That was good.

LIAM: It was great. Do I need to make another stealth check at this point?

MATT: Nah, it maintains.

LIAM: All right, so I'm going to– Just stay back, there's no point in all of us getting with something. And I move 20 feet ahead of everybody.

MATT: You move 20 feet ahead. You enter the room and you can see this chamber is square in size, but it is divided, it seems to be in three halls. There's a path to the right, a path to the left, and a path ahead of you. You can't quite see all the way past, the hallway continues to the very edge of your visual range once you enter the chamber. However, what you can see is to the right and left of you parts of the wall have collapsed, like there's piles of rubbles and stone and earth. Make a perception check at this point.

LAURA: I'm peeking through the door at this point.

MATT: Okay, she does as well.

LIAM: Going to use my second Luck today because I rolled a one. That's better. Perception, you said? 22.

MATT: Looking to the edge of the two pathways you can see, there appears to be a little bit of a shimmer or bit of movement, like light silk, almost like threads shifting, entwined, it looks almost like a large, very, very faint web that is draped over one wall on the right and matching on the left side.

LIAM: Does it remind me of anything I've seen in my dreams?

MATT: I mean, other than the idea of a glimmering thread, maybe, but it isn't glowing, it's not emanating light, and it's very thin, very wispy. And there are a few of them that you can see before the rest of your perspective on the two walls that break it into three passageways.

LIAM: I don't hear any eight-legged friends around?

MATT: You don't see any currently at this position. Ahead of you, in the central chamber, you do see what looks to be a small pit, like a divot. Almost like a cauldron, about ten feet across. Similar in size and circular structure as the first water pool you guys dove into, except for it comes to a convex end with nothing visible in it. There's like stones built around the outside of it.

LIAM: I could be grasping at straws, but I'm getting a bit of an arachnid vibe in here. I'm not sure. There's three passages, there's webbing of some kind to the left and to the right, and some sort of divot or bowl on the ground. I think you can all come in. Quietly.

LAURA: I walk up next to him. Oh yeah, I see what you're talking about. Yeah.

MARISHA: Upon hearing this, Keyleth drops to her knees and does a Locate Creature. Do I sense any spiders?

MATT: You actually do not sense any spiders.

MARISHA: I think we're good on spiders.

TALIESIN: This thread is silk, isn't it? It's actual material. I'm not going to touch it. Conscious of the creation of air currents, I'm going to gingerly put on my mask so that my breath does not move things, and examine.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Smart. While he's doing that, I want to use Primeval Awareness to sense celestials.

MATT: And that is one of the entities that you can check with that? Okay. What'd you roll, Taliesin?

TALIESIN: I rolled a two. So my investigation is five. Which is how old I'm turning.

(laughter)

MATT: It is a thread and there are multiple– as you get closer, you can see there are many threads that are partway through this 15, 20-foot wide hallway on the far right that you've gone to and inspected. This network of threads appear to be attaching at the halfway point and then draped against the wall, what looks like a spiderweb made of this thread all converges in the center. That's the best you can make of it. You do not sense any celestials.

TRAVIS: The hell's a celestial?

MATT: But do mark off your spell slot for that use.

LAURA: That's not a spell slot, it's just my– Oh! Expend one ranger spell slot! I have never, ever done that.

MATT: I assumed you were keeping track of that.

LAURA: I have never even looked at that bold–

MATT: Well, going forward–

TRAVIS: It is in bold print.

LAURA: Wow. I am sorry about that, Matt.

MATT: That's okay.

SAM: Is there any way to cross the room without touching the web?

MATT: Yeah. Essentially, it's a 15, 20-foot wide thing, the web only starts about partway and encompasses the side of it.

MARISHA: And is there anything behind the webs? Just rubble?

MATT: Behind the webs, the hallway continues and then ends and then continues right. It's almost like it's a square room that has walls here that split it into three different passages and they all converge again on the opposite side.

LAURA: Can we see all the way to the end?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: It's very mini-golf.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16? You notice at the end of the two hallways on the sides, beyond the spiderweb in the corner, there are two small five, six-foot-wide pools of water similar to the ones you dove into that are lined with stones and a little bit of gold trim similar to what you guys saw in the previous room.

LAURA: Those doorways?

MATT: So you have the rubble's on the side, you have the spiderwebs, you have the pools at the end there, and you have the empty cauldron in the center piece, but you cannot see, unless you move further forward, you cannot see beyond where those hallways converge on the opposite side.

TRAVIS: Is it just me, or does that one in the middle look like a fire pit?

MARISHA: I agree. I think this looks like a convergence-of-the-elements type of a room.

TRAVIS: We have some boar in the frozen bag.

SAM: You want to start cooking here?

MARISHA: I can light a fire in that pit.

LAURA: Is it far away? You can set my arrow on fire and send it down.

MATT: Nah. It's 25 feet from the doors you guys entered in.

LAURA: Oh. Just don't want to walk down there.

TRAVIS: The last time we did that, shit went down.

LAURA: Let's get in the doorway and then if something happens we shut the doors.

TRAVIS: Well, can we walk over to the cauldron first and see what's above it?

LAURA: If you want to walk in.

MATT: Vax. Okay, as you walk up, make a perception check.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: As they're having this conversation, looking about and floating back, I know your passive as well, but even mid-conversation with him, as you kept an eye out, you see too that to the front of each of these walls that bisects the room, what you thought was just a wall, now as you've had time to study it in quiet as everybody else has been talking during these experiments– Scanlan, you probably would've noticed this too– the wall is, the separator's actually a giant obelisk on each side, just like the one that you saw in the Frostweald on the way in that the basilisks were around. You see they're much newer, they're not as weathered by the ages, and they're these two markers with the symbol of Ioun carved into them.

LIAM: Shorthalt, come here.

SAM: Oi? Oi, yes.

LIAM: Look at this thing. Look there and there. These are like the–

SAM: It's like the one that we saw before.

LIAM: Yeah, do you still have the doohickus?

SAM: Of course I have my doohickus.

LIAM: Do you want us to shove it in the hole?

SAM: You realize that I was born to shove things in holes.

LIAM: That's why I called you over, man.

SAM: All right, so which one?

LIAM: Eenie, meenie, miney, mo. Catch a druid by the toe. If she hollers, let her go, eenie, meenie, miney–

MARISHA: You know, we've always found that very offensive. I just want to say that.

SAM: I'll choose the right one and I'll stick my Ioun stone in it.

MATT: Okay, looking at the base of it, you see there is the same triangular symbol there. You place the Ioun stone into the recess in the obelisk. As you do, it glows faintly, the obelisk itself tends to give off the same teal, greenish-blue glow, the other one also does the same. At which point the darkness across the room is immediately dissipated as two previously unseen braziers across the way burst into flame, lighting the opposite side of the room. You can see what looks to be a series of heavy steps that lead up to a higher platform on the opposite side of the room. You can see two pillars at the edge on the very top of this raised platform that meet the ceiling.

SAM: Well, let's go up there and check it out.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

TRAVIS: I like it. You want a hand?

LIAM: I push Scanlan a bit up ahead of me.

MARISHA: So this is going over the firepit, past the wispy–

MATT: Yeah, there's all the stuff on the sides and the central room has that pit.

LAURA: Hold your breath as you pass the wispy wisps, I don't trust them.

LIAM: Get that silver tongue of yours ready, all right?

SAM: I don't think anything's going to want to talk to us down here.

TRAVIS: Can we look at the ground for (laughs) for traps as we're walking? Any squares that might move?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Yup. Nine.

MATT: Nothing catches your attention.

TRAVIS: No, we're good.

LIAM: Would you like me to do that?

MATT: Are you guys all moving in the different ways, the same way? Which way are you taking?

SAM: If we go to the right or the left, we have to cross these webs? Or no?

MATT: You can move around the web on that, it only covers half the path, you still have about seven to ten feet of clearance between where the web starts and the wall.

LAURA: Just open with a brazier at the end.

MATT: Mm-hmm.

SAM: Why don't we each take a direction?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'll take the left.

LAURA: I'll take the middle.

TALIESIN: I'll take the right.

MATT: Okay. You guys all quietly move forward, stepping through these passages, stepping around, you can see, like I said, the crumbled walls in the far corner, you can see the webbing there, there are the small pools at the far end corners before they converge again into the central chamber where that giant platform is.

TALIESIN: I have my gun in my hand, by the way. And my mask on.

SAM: Wait, I could just bamf over to the other side. Should I just do that?

LAURA: Maybe you should do that.

MATT: You guys are partway across now. Are you stopping?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I'm going to continue not disturbing the air as best I can.

MARISHA: Yeah, we're moving very slowly, not disturbing the air.

MATT: Okay, you guys keep walking carefully. Scanlan, are you doing anything?

SAM: Yeah, I'll Dimension Door to the platform on the other side.

MATT: Okay. You appear on the opposite side and you look around. What you didn't see from the shadow that was being cast past the braziers, to the right of you, Scanlan, you see a large form that is there, as a pile, a crumpled pile on the top of this platform. What catches your eyes, and you guys see this too as you begin to walk up as Scanlan appears and glances over, as you get closer you can see there is what looks to be a cold, blue marble that is right there, and you see it being turned and held by what looks to be a very faintly lit giant paw. You can see two eyes that glance up, and glance over at Scanlan amongst the shadows, the same color as that blue marble. As it glances at Scanlan, and it is massive in comparison to your tiny gnomish frame, the marble is then tucked deep into what looks like hair of some kind before it disappears, the eyes still glowing the blue color. Suddenly the form begins to move as two giant arms (impacts), and a voice comes billowing out of this entity. “I have watched you come.” The creature now stands on all fours. A good 15, 20 feet taller than you, Scanlan. A body similar and lionlike to Osysa's, only thicker and rippling with muscle beneath the fur. The face is masculine and human-like, cheeks adorned with ceremonial marks, head wreathed in a thick mane of red-brown hair. Two enormous feathered wings stretch out from its back, with a giant whoosh, a whoosh of wind that tends to cause the braziers to shift in place. And it looks at you for a second, expectantly, then to the rest of the others.

SAM: Hello. Osysa sent us.

MATT: It mounts itself there, turns so it's facing both you and the rest of you as you all approach. “You, you seek power, glory, retribution. I know your quarry, and I know your goal. She has told me. I can show you. But all great knowledge should not be given. You must be proven. It must be earned. It must be EARNED.” And as his voice roars, the room echoes and you can see wind begin to whip all around you. Glancing over your shoulder, you guys can see now the empty pit in the center of the hall behind you is now whipping into a whirlwind and what appears to be a small centralized cyclone that's now rising up, meeting the ceiling, staying stationary in place, arcing there. The braziers flame up even brighter now, the flames, you can feel the heat even from your distance at this point. You can see now the sphinx is baring its gleaming white teeth there at the top. “What. Is. My. Name?”

SAM: Fuck.

MATT: Roll initiative.

MARISHA: We have no fucking clue!

LAURA: Oh my god!

TALIESIN: Okay, that just happened.

LAURA: His name, what is his name?

TALIESIN: I'm back, baby.

MARISHA: The golden snitch lives!

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: I have the worst initiative rolls all the time except for earlier today.

MATT: All righty. So. Initiative roll. Ooh. Okay. All righty. So. 25 to 20.

LIAM: 24.

TALIESIN: 30.

MATT: (laughs) Damn.

LAURA: Jeez Louise.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Any ideas?

TALIESIN: Very, I, yes? Maybe? I don't know?

MATT: 20 to 15?

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19.

SAM: 17.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: That map is awesome.

TRAVIS: All the elements are there.

LIAM: Look at the fire. (laughs)

MATT: Oh yeah, we got flickering braziers, guys.

SAM: Whoa, that's lit, it's lit up! How did you do that?

MATT: Dwarven Forge has cool stuff. Thank you guys.

TRAVIS: Fucking Dwarven Forge, man.

MATT: All right, so that brings us to 15 to ten?

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: Grog. Anyone else?

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: Oh, and Pike is actually before Grog. All right. Percy, you're up first.

SAM: He hasn't attacked us.

MARISHA: What is his name, Percy?

SAM: Atreyu.

TALIESIN: I hate you. I'm going to pull back to the water pit to my right. Oh, to my left, sorry. I'm going to pull back to that water pit. I'm going to examine it.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: 21. As you rush over, you look down into the pool. The surface itself is disturbed by the wind that's blowing in this chamber. However, looking into it, below the surface you don't see– it's darkness, you don't see a continuation, you don't see anything behind it. The water doesn't seem natural.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to scoop some of the water with my mask, pull the mask off, scoop water, and try and toss it at the flame that's right next to me. That's my move.

MATT: Okay. You put the mask in and your hand moves into it. Your hand gets extremely cold suddenly. You don't see it beneath the surface; it almost vanishes below the water. It's really unsettling. You pull it up and the water is there in your mask. You throw it and the water, it evaporates and the flames flicker slightly, but they's too strong and it doesn't seem to have much of an effect on the brazier.

TALIESIN: Fascinating. All right. That's my move.

MATT: Yep. That's your move and your action. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: How are we supposed to know your name? Is it Osyso?

MATT: Teeth are bared and it's sitting there looking at all of you, waiting.

LIAM: I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. Can I use a bonus action to hide and then hold? Any stuff?

MATT: You could, yeah, you can move and then hold your action to a trigger point if you want to.

LIAM: Where am I in there?

MATT: You're right here.

LIAM: So I'm going to hide. I'm going to move backward around the corner and hide.

MATT: Around this way?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, you can move there. Go ahead and roll for hide.

LIAM: Okay. 25.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I'm going to hold for the moment he attacks any of my friends.

MATT: Okay, got you. All right, at the end of your turn, the entire– the wind that's blowing, there's grains of sand that are picked up into it, and you guys feel like there's something out of place, this whole area, like this sudden drift. You feel like the air in your lungs gets butterflies for a second and something, even though this place is stationary, it's almost like the whole place shifts. I need everybody to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Shit.

TRAVIS: Fuck.

TALIESIN: Damn, I'm back.

MARISHA: Nice.

TALIESIN: 26.

SAM: Four.

MARISHA: Saving throw, correct?

MATT: Yes, constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: 23. 22.

LIAM: 17.

TRAVIS: With disadvantage, 13.

MATT: Okay. While most of you guys manage to withstand it, Scanlan and Grog and Vex, the wind feels like it's knocked out of you, and like you were suddenly stretched thin and you can't understand it. You glance– right now, it's hard to really tell. Scanlan lurches forward for a second. Grog and Vex, you're right next to each other, you both glance at each other and you can see, it's like Grog's skin has aged suddenly. His– around his eyes it's grown a little more sunken, his muscles have sagged slightly. He looks, not ancient by any means, but it looks like he's seen about another 15 to 20 years of travels.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: What does that mean?

SAM: Me too?

MATT: You also have, although due to your gnome lineage it has less of an effect, and no one's noticed it at this distance, but if anyone gets a quick glance, you'll see a few grey hairs starting to sprout on the side of Scanlan's head.

SAM: I get rid of those.

MATT: All right. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh. Do I feel old?

MATT: You feel like you've been pulled through something, but it doesn't have a mighty effect, although, Grog, glancing at Vex you can see there is definitely a little bit more of a weathered look to her, crow's nests forming, deep-seated frown lines.

LAURA: Oh, jeez. I shout out– I run towards the other water portal.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And I shout out, Pike, do you know the names of the four ancient gods? Is your name four? That's stupid.

MATT: There doesn't seem to be a reaction. Pike goes, “No, I mean, the gods that were at the beginning, there's–”

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: “There was Pelor and Melora and, I mean, they're the ones who cast away the elements, the chaos that this realm was first. I don't know!” And she seems– she's bungled and unable to really formulate what you're asking.

LAURA: I wouldn't have any religion, anything to base that off of?

MATT: Make a religion check if you want to.

LAURA: Wow. Wow. Two! That's four ones in a night.

MATT: Wow. Wow. It's the reverse Percy tonight.

LAURA: I've been cursed.

MATT: You try and think back to the conversation you had with Highbearer Vord in the Platinum Sanctuary, and your mind's a blank. You can't recall any of that conversation.

LAURA: I have an advantage on anything having to do with dragons.

MATT: It has nothing to do with dragons.

LAURA: Well, I was just checking.

MATT: This is the creation myth of all of existence. However, you still have your action if you want to do something. You're by the pool, it's right to your right, and there's this sphinx now rearing–

LAURA: I saw Percy dip his hand into the water, so I do the same thing to see what it does.

MATT: You what? You put your–

LAURA: I put my hand in the water.

MATT: You dip your hand in the water. The hand, once it breaks the surface, it vanishes into darkness below the water. You don't even see, there's no visual on it.

LAURA: Does it hurt?

MATT: No, it doesn't hurt, it's cold, it's very cold.

LAURA: Pull it back out.

MATT: Pull it back out. Your hand is wet and it drips and you shake it free.

LAURA: Can I use a bonus action to try to hide? Is there anywhere to hide? Maybe against a wall or something?

MATT: You move one, two, three, four, five, six. You're not going to be able to get completely out of sight. (laughs) Unless you want to jump in the water.

TALIESIN: So there's a whirlwind in the center of the room, there's two piles of rocks, there's two vats of water, there's two torches, and then there's two spiderwebs.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: And the spiderwebs are covering the walls.

MATT: Yeah. All right, so that ends Vex's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I will face the sphinx and say: is your name Ioun?

MATT: The sphinx is still there growling at you. “She is beyond me… What is my name, little scrumptious one?”

TRAVIS: Hit him!

TALIESIN: Do you have your earpiece in, by the way?

SAM: Sure, we all do.

TALIESIN: Okay. Good to know.

SAM: I mean, I'm not going to attack this thing if it hasn't attacked me yet, so I'm going to, eee.

TRAVIS: There's spiderwebs, there's stones, there's fire, there's water–

TALIESIN: Working on it!

LAURA: I feel like we're so stupid, we should know this. “The four endure, the four remember.”

SAM: Can I hold my attack until a trigger?

MATT: You can if you want to, yeah.

SAM: Or hold my action until a trigger?

MATT: Yeah, what do you want to hold it for?

SAM: If he makes a move towards me physically.

MATT: Okay. Remember, you guys who are holding your action, you can interrupt and release at anything if it doesn't happen, be aware of that. All right, so it now goes to the sphinx's turn.

TRAVIS: Okay, this should be fun. We're all standing around with our thumbs up our asses.

LIAM: Yup.

MATT: The sphinx takes a step forward to the edge of the stairway and (roars) gives out this earth-shattering roar that shakes– a couple of stones and dust that are loosened from the ceiling falls down. I need everybody to make a wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Is this magic?

MATT: Yes, it is.

LIAM: Is it charm, by any chance?

MATT: It's not a spell, it is a magical effect.

SAM: Do I get advantage on that?

MATT: What do you get advantage from?

SAM: Advantage versus magic on saves.

MATT: From being a gnome?

SAM: It says, Gnome Cunning, advantage on wisdom, character, intelligence, magic saves. That's what I wrote down, anyway.

MATT: Let me double-check here just to be sure.

SAM: It doesn't really matter, I rolled shit on both, so it's okay. Don't bother.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. Against magic, so yeah, you would have advantage.

LIAM: And does it have anything to do with charm or sleep?

MATT: Nope.

LIAM: Nope, okay. 17.

MATT: 17.

SAM: Seven.

TALIESIN: 19.

MARISHA: 23.

LAURA: 24.

TRAVIS: 11. Disadvantage.

TALIESIN: (laughs) You picked the wrong day to stop sniffing glue.

TRAVIS: What the fuck? (laughs) I know. Paint chips.

TALIESIN: You made a bad call.

TRAVIS: I made a bad call.

MATT: Grog. Vex, what was it you rolled, again?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24. And you rolled?

LIAM: 17.

MATT: 17. That's right. All right, so. As the roar pierces through the hallway, most of you guys steel yourself. Grog, Scanlan, Pike, and Vax, you feel the sudden reality of how fearful and dangerous this creature is. You stepped into the lair of an ancient, powerful entity and you feel like your very life is at stake. You guys are frightened for one minute.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Frightened means you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while you can see it, and you cannot willingly move closer to the creature. So you have to either move adjacent, like same distance from it, or away. You can make a saving throw every turn to try and resist it. It is now going to stay right where it is. That brings it to Pike's turn. Pike doesn't quite know how to deal with this whole circumstance. She is going to cast–

TALIESIN: Text Ashley.

TRAVIS: There's also the obelisks. We got to go start touching the other shit.

LAURA: Obelisks were in Elvish.

MARISHA: Issylra is a continent, right?

TRAVIS: It was all written in what, in–?

MATT: Pike is going to reach forward to you, Grog. Take a step this way. Pike's going to reach forward and cast Freedom of Movement on you. At fourth level.

TRAVIS: Oh. I was going to rage and shake it, but–

MATT: So for the next hour, you cannot be paralyzed or restrained, you can't have your speed reduced via magical effects. You're still feared, but–

TRAVIS: I can shake that with a rage.

MATT: You can shake that with a rage, yes. But yeah, for the next hour. It's not concentration, either.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Pike.

MATT: She says, “Go get him, Grog.”

TRAVIS: You got it, buddy!

MATT: All right. That ends Pike's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I might as well do what Pike says. I'm going to bum-rush the sphinx.

MATT: Straight-up?

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: All right. You rush up the stairs.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MATT: With a precariousness of– we'll say you rush up here for the sake of positioning.

TRAVIS: Sure. Two strikes, straight-up.

SAM: Just going to hit it?

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yeah. I'm not smart, this is all I do. 23?

MATT: 23? That hits.

TRAVIS: His face is awful. Should I roll damage or roll both attacks first?

MATT: It's all against him, roll attacks. You're not going to kill it in one hit.

TRAVIS: No, that's true.

SAM: What if it's a nine-point hit point?

TRAVIS: 24 on the first one.

MATT: 24 damage, all righty.

TRAVIS: Second attack. Holy shit, that's a 28.

MATT: Nice, that hits.

TRAVIS: Something's going to happen to me and it's going to be bad. Six. 11. 23.

MATT: Okay. Makes its first constitution saving throw. Fails its second. So you steal another strength point and the sphinx's strength goes down to that.

TRAVIS: So I'm at 25 now.

LAURA: Down to 79 strength.

MATT: You're at 25 now. Okay.

TRAVIS: And I don't go up again until 26. Right? On the evens.

MATT: Right. But 25 is the max for this sword. It says on the weapon, it should be under ability.

TRAVIS: Oh, you're right, yeah.

MATT: All right. So. You run up and swing two heavy swings after going into a rage to resist the fear effect. You grin and bear it, go over and swing twice, hacking into the side of it. Its hide is very strong and there's almost like this weird resistance on the outside of its body, like its very force of existence and personality is keeping the blade from doing as much damage as it should, but you still strike true, slamming into it twice. You pull the strength from it. As you do, a voice in your head goes, “Yesss.”

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: At this point, as you look at the blade, the blade now begins to emanate a shadow aura stronger than previously that begins to also form around your upper shoulders, drifting. The blade suddenly extends another foot, the edges of it that were smooth project with a jagged, thorny outside. The blade itself now is longer, thicker, and far more dangerous-looking than it was before. Until your next short rest, all attacks with the sword do an additional 2d6 necrotic damage.

ALL: Whoa!

TRAVIS: (laughs) Super Saiyan, motherfucker! 2d6 necrotic damage? Okay. And I'll stay there.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And await my punishment.

MATT: All right. At the end of your turn, the sphinx is going to use its three legendary actions.

LIAM: Three legendary actions?

MATT: Is going to use three of them to cast a spell out of order. It's going to go ahead and call down a Flame Strike.

LAURA: We're all going to die!

MATT: Onto the twins.

LAURA: Why?!

LIAM: Can I attack him now, while he's casting, because I held my turn?

MATT: You can, actually, yes.

LIAM: Okay, so I'm hidden and Grog's next to him, which would normally put me at advantage, but he's got me afraid, which puts me at disadvantage, which means it cancels out and it's one straight roll, right? On the attacks?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay. Good. So I'm going to throw– I'm hasted, I'm going to throw two daggers at him. The first one is, probably hits, where's the freaking page? 23 for the first.

MATT: 23 hits.

LIAM: 18 for the second.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Do they both hit or just the first? I'm only doing two.

MATT: What was the second one? It was–

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18 hits.

LIAM: Okay, so the first one is seven, the second is seven. And I want to use the rest of my turn to, as I'm hasted, to run around to the back of that obelisk and start reading.

MATT: Over here?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. All right. As you're doing that reaction shot, it calls down the column, hits both of you before you can burst off. All of a sudden, as you look over at your brother, you feel this rising energy before all of a sudden this entire area is (boom) consumed in burning holy divine light. I need both of you guys to make a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: I'm going to use evasion.

MATT: Yeah, evasion happens automatically as part of your reaction to that, so yeah.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: 30.

LIAM: Dexterity, so 14.

MATT: You rolled a what?

LAURA: 30.

MATT: 30 dexterity saving throw?

LIAM: No, eff it, I'm going to use my last Luck of the day. Ugh, barely any better. 16.

MATT: 16 for you?

LIAM: Mm-hmm.

MATT: Okay. Right, so Vex? You take half damage from this. You take full damage, unfortunately. So that's going to be 21 points of fire and radiant damage to you.

TRAVIS: Is half?

MATT: 21 is the half. You, however, have resistance to fire, Liam.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: So the 22 points of fire damage you would've taken is reduced to 11.

LIAM: With evasion, if I fail, I take half damage.

MATT: Right, so yeah, so you would take, so you would take the same, but a quarter because of halving fire damage to take from that.

LIAM: So I didn't hear the number because I was reading, what was–?

TRAVIS: 21, so half 21 would be 11.

MATT: Well, radiant damage you're not resistant to, so I'd say it would be 17 points of damage. There you go. You rush out of the flames and find your way around the obelisk. However, you have to wait until your turn before you can take a look at that. All right, now it comes to Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Okay. I yell out: Issylra!

MATT: It doesn't seem to have any effect.

MARISHA: Okay, that might be a continent.

MATT: It is.

(laughter)

MATT: It's the continent where Vasselheim is, and–

MARISHA: Not his name. And I cast Control Water again and I start pouring the water out of the pools and onto the fire.

MATT: Okay. The water comes out as a column, doesn't appear to be coming to an end, you're not quite sure where it's being drawn from, it's this constant stream, and as it hits the flame (tshhh) but the flames aren't going out. It's all turning to steam and it's filling the room with steam and the more and more it pours into it, the more and more the room is beginning to become obscured and making it hard to see.

MARISHA: Okay, well, I stop that.

MATT: Okay. As you do, the streams stop water. The pools are still completely still where you've pulled it out of, seemingly unbothered other than the little bit of wind that's blowing, and have not lessened in their volume at all.

MARISHA: Good to know. Can I do some sort of check to see if I would've heard anything about this type of a thing in my druid time, is this like a different plane of existence, what is this shit?

MATT: What, this place you are?

MARISHA: Yeah, or would I know of what his name would be from the telling of the Second Spark and any of my elemental knowledge as a druid?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's good. 19.

MATT: 19. Thinking back about the stories you've heard, which isn't a whole lot necessarily. Are we good on the stream?

RYAN: (off-camera) Yeah, we're good on the stream.

LIAM: Had a little flicker.

MATT: We had a little flicker. You recall, go through, poring through all the information that was given to you, you don't know a whole lot about the history element, it isn't a part of the druidic training experience, but based on the discussion with Highbearer Vord, no mention of a sphinx, nothing like that.

MARISHA: Fuck. I don't know, you guys!

MATT: I think that's your turn, though. Unless you want to move.

MARISHA: No. I'm good.

MATT: Okay. End of your turn, the shimmering webs on each side flash for a second, and stepping out of them, you can see a slightly translucent, not fully physical spider on each side.

LIAM: Fey spiders, you son of a– oh god, I keep hitting that, we got to fix that.

MATT: This spider immediately (skittering) up to Percy. And this one (skittering) up to Vex.

LAURA: Ah, c'mon!

MATT: Versus you, Percy, rolled a one. Completely missed. It goes and reaches out towards you, out of the way. Vex, however, that is a 23.

LAURA: That hits me.

MATT: That hits. You go ahead and suffer–

LAURA: You go ahead and suffer!

MATT: (laughs) Suffer nine points of psychic damage. The spider, upon biting you, dissipates out of existence. It actually bites you and then its form (shhk) into your head and causes this psychic backlash and feedback in your head. The other spider misses you and remains in existence. Top of the round, Percy, you're up.

SAM: Oh, well if, at the end of the round, have I not gone yet?

MATT: You have not gone yet, do you want to?

SAM: Can I go?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah, I mean, I guess I'll attack at this point.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'll try something that will definitely fail. I will try and fail to put him into the Resilient Sphere. Which I'm sure will fail. (laughs)

MATT: What is the DC on the Resilient Sphere?

SAM: Well, I don't have my stuff with me.

MATT: I believe if it's through the–

SAM: Through the hand cone?

MATT: The hand cone I think is 20 now, isn't it?

SAM: It's 20 now, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so it doesn't make its dexterity saving throw.

SAM: But I have disadvantage on attack, but that doesn't matter.

MATT: Doesn't matter for this one. That is 21. Yep.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: So. You attempt to create the sphere around it. As you can see it begins to encase the sphinx, and the sphinx just– its head, after staring at Grog, goes (growls), and as it roars at you, the sphere that's formed around it shatters and the arcane essence is scattered about the room and vanishes.

SAM: Can I ask him if his name is Earned?

MATT: He sits there glaring at you.

SAM: Okay, that's a stupid question, sorry.

TRAVIS: Maybe say it in Celestial.

SAM: I don't know Celestial!

LAURA: Say it in Celestial, Percy.

MATT: All right, so that's Percy's turn now, Percy, what are you doing?

TALIESIN: The first thing I'm going to is, I'm going to guess a name, because that's fun.

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: I'm going to yell, Lux! Whatever that would be in Celestial. First light.

MATT: Okay. You shout out, and the sound of Celestial being spoken has this echo to it, this, Lux, and it fades afterward. It has no immediate effect, the wind seems to swallow it around you from all the noise going around. The sphinx has no interest.

TALIESIN: That's fine, I'm going to take a slash at that spider with my sword.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 19.

MATT: 19 hits.

TALIESIN: I don't suppose that there's a keyword dragon in there anywhere?

MATT: A what?

TALIESIN: I don't suppose there's a keyword dragon anywhere in that spider's description, but–

MATT: (laughs) No, there isn't.

TALIESIN: Pissing in the wind.

MATT: It's okay. It is a magical sword you're attacking with, right?

TALIESIN: It is a magical sword I'm attacking with. That's 11 points of slashing damage.

MATT: This spider is scattered into ether.

TALIESIN: With my sword out, I'm going to run down the hall and I'm going to take two more slashing attacks at the web.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll.

TALIESIN: 17, but really, how hard is it to hit a web?

MATT: It's more about finding the right place to do the proper damage, but that works, go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's 13 points of damage.

MATT: Okay. You cut through some of the threads, it limps on one side, but it's still keeping itself aloft.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: All right, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Ooh. 15 points of damage.

MATT: 15 points of damage. All right. With that, the second strike, the thread dissipates and turns into smoke and vanishes from existence. None of the threads remain, it vanishes.

TALIESIN: Is there anything written on the wall?

MATT: Go ahead and roll an investigation check.

SAM: It says, “That guy's name is Paul.”

MARISHA: Paul was here.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: Okay, 19. Glancing at the wall behind–

TALIESIN: Fucking brain! Knowledge is power. For reals!

LAURA: Maybe that's his name. Power.

MATT: It says in Celestial, “Windows and doors.”

LAURA: The sky. The sky.

TALIESIN: Water and sky.

MATT: It says windows and doors.

TALIESIN: I say out loud, windows and doors! Water and sky! And that's–

MATT: That's your turn. Percy's over. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm taking a quick look at the obelisk that I'm right in front of, I think it's in Elvish, isn't it?

MATT: The obelisk in front of you? This actually, aside from the symbol of Ioun, there's no writing on it.

LIAM: There's nothing on it, nothing to do. I'm going to throw three daggers through the web. Is that the one– so Percy's over there? I'm going to throw three daggers through the web over there.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LIAM: 13. 30. And 17.

MATT: All right, what was it? Sorry, it was?

LIAM: 13, 30, and 17.

MATT: All right, the second two hit, so go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: Ten and eight.

MATT: Ten and eight. All right. You throw two and it cuts a few threads and the path of it falls limp but the web stays up.

LIAM: And I can't move any closer to the sphinx at this point, right, because of the fear?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: So I'm stuck here, am I?

MATT: Yeah, you can't move any closer to it right now. But you can make a saving throw at the end of your turn to try–

LIAM: I will do that. I'd also like to take one step to the right.

MATT: One step to the right? All right.

LIAM: This way, yeah. And no, I rolled an eight for wisdom.

MATT: Okay, so you're still in the fear effect. All right. By the way, Grog, go ahead and make a saving throw to resist the effect so it's gone, even though you–

TRAVIS: Oh, at disadvantage?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Which saving throw?

MATT: It's wisdom.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Five.

MATT: All right, you're still under the effect. And Scanlan, actually, roll it again.

TRAVIS: Oh, but I'm raging.

MATT: Right, you resist, I mean, it doesn't affect you but it still persists.

TRAVIS: Got you.

MATT: If you stopped raging then the fear would kick in.

SAM: Is this a saving throw?

MATT: This is wisdom.

SAM: And do I still get advantage or no, because the first time it's cast.

MATT: You would, I'd say, sure.

SAM: 12.

MATT: 12, yeah. The fear still strikes in your heart. All right. Vax, that's the end of your turn. All right. I need everybody in here to go ahead and reroll initiative as the time flux in the room all of a sudden flickers and time seems to shift and move. Everyone reroll initiative.

MARISHA: What? Well, that's a better roll.

SAM: Are we time bandits now? Is that what's happening?

TALIESIN: Oh my god. His name is the Doctor.

(laughter)

MARISHA: But Doctor who?

TALIESIN: Doctor whom. That's always bothered me. Doctor whom.

MATT: All right, so. 25 to 20.

SAM: 20.

MATT: 20.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 22, that's a lie, 22.

SAM: Liar.

TALIESIN: Liar!

MATT: Okay. 20 to 15?

TALIESIN: 18.

MARISHA: 18.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: All right, we got Percy, Keyleth, Grog. All right. And then.

LIAM: Ocho.

MATT: Ocho? Pike's before you.

LIAM: Time slippage, man.

MATT: Yeah man, it sucks. All right. That ends that count. It is now its turn. The time shift actually managed to lose your turn, both you and Scanlan. You guys shifted through the top of the order.

LAURA: Wait, but I still rolled a 22.

MATT: I know.

TALIESIN: I hate time travel so much.

TRAVIS: It screws a high roll.

MATT: Basically, Scanlan, you can go simultaneously now. You lose your turn.

SAM: That sounds cool.

MATT: I mean, it's time, it's shitty.

TRAVIS: What's the Celestial word for time?

MARISHA: I know, we were thinking about that time.

MATT: You know what? It doesn't specify. I'll say go ahead. It starts at the top of the initiative round, so you know what? Vex, your turn, go for it. Go for it. Doesn't specify, I could be a dick about it, but you know.

LAURA: I take back my glare.

MATT: It's more fun to not have your turn lost.

TALIESIN: There was a time jump so the glare never happened.

MATT: What you got?

LAURA: Can I look up at the ceilings and see if there's any portals on the top of the ceiling like there were in the last room?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: 29. Nope, solid stone ceiling.

LAURA: Is there anything to tie the Robe of Infinite Twine onto?

MATT: I mean, there's the brazier, but it's pretty close to flame and you don't know if rope will survive that.

LAURA: Do I still have the Immovable Rod from before?

MATT: Yeah, you retrieved it, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, then I put the Immovable Rod, I tie it in, I hold on to the rope, and I jump in the water.

MATT: Okay. You take the rod and you (click) in the middle of the air, you take the rope, tie it around real fast over everything, and the sphinx now looming forward being attacked and flanked by the two of them. You take the rope and jump into the water. There's no splash, you disappear into the water. You guys watch her vanish into the pool.

MARISHA: Vex jumped in the water?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Cool.

LIAM: The code is “critrole”, and you will not have to pay for any kind of shipment in any way, shape, or form. The wood still costs.

MARISHA: Also, look how attractive that map is. Dwarven Forge, everybody.

SAM: Oh boy. We'll be making an appearance–

TALIESIN: Don't do that. That's weird. Stop that. God, every time you're off camera.

LIAM: Travis is flexing his boobies.

SAM: Guys, we're going to die because we can't think of the name Steve.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine.

MARISHA: Yeah, there's a correlation with blue.

TALIESIN: I have theories. I have lots and lots of theories.

MARISHA: I have lots of theories, too.

TALIESIN: I have lots of theories. There's lots of theories here, we have to be fast enough to try them out.

SAM: Test them out.

LIAM: And then time shifts and we're back in.

TALIESIN: I can only move so fast through the room.

MATT: Do you pull yourself out?

LAURA: Yeah, I pull myself back out.

MATT: Okay, you guys, there's a breathless moment and suddenly Vex comes out from the rope, drenched in water.

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: What?

LAURA: K-A. Other door. But make sure there's a rope.

SAM: K-A? What does that mean?

LAURA: Jump in the water. Make sure you can get out.

SAM: What?

TRAVIS: K-A on the door?

SAM: What does that mean? What?

MATT: As you say K-A out loud, the sphinx goes– there's a glimmer in the eye at you, and it continues on, looking over at Grog and Scanlan.

SAM: You got part of the name? Part of the name.

MARISHA: Oh, son of a bitch! All right.

SAM: Which water did you go in?

LAURA: The little brazier that I'm next to.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: But don't jump in without a rope.

MARISHA: You're on the one on the left. Yeah?

LAURA: Yeah. Make sure you can get out.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Well, shit. I want to go diving, but I don't think I'd make it over there. Shit. For now, I'll just– someone else is going to do the water thing, I assume?

MARISHA: I can, I'm close by, I'm close by, I can handle it.

MATT: At the end of your turn, the water that's around you, it's freezing cold and you suffer eight points of cold damage.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: From the process of submerging into it. However, once that damage hits, your body heat manages to recover, and it turns back to normal water temperature, so.

SAM: I'm going to, I will attempt to cast Eyebite on the sphinx.

MATT: Okay. The DC is 20 on that?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: What is the saving throw for that one?

SAM: Wisdom.

MATT: Wisdom. Eyebite it is. That is a 27. Yeah, it resists the Eyebite.

SAM: What a dick. What a dick. Well, I can't do anything else, so I will– hi. Who's around? Who's about to do something? I'll turn to Vax and inspire him.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

SAM: That's it. I'll say, (singing) You are not throwing away your shot, you are not throwing away your shot, you're just like your sister, you're young, brooding and hungry, and you're not throwing away your shot.

(laughter)

MATT: That's fantastic. Okay. All right, so. You take your d10 inspiration die. At the end of your turn, it goes to the lair count. Lair count's already happened this turn, so I'm not going to keep that going. However, the sphinx does take its turn. It's going to go ahead and loose a claw attack at both of you. Against Scanlan, that is–

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words.

MATT: Okay. All right.

SAM: To get out of it. I'm going to blow my shawm. (high-pitched lip whistle noise)

(laughter)

SAM: To distract it.

MATT: Roll a d10. It rolled a 25 to hit, so.

SAM: He's still going to hit me. A d10.

MATT: Yeah, so roll a d10 and that's how much it reduces it by.

SAM: By eight.

MATT: By eight, that brings it to a 17. What's your AC?

SAM: 16.

MATT: So it still hits you. Hits you for 28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw (whoosh) rakes across you. The sheer impact almost throws you off the top of the platform, and you can feel the blood beginning to seep from the wound under your armor. It turns around and rapidly does a full-on claw attack towards you, Grog. That is going to be a 27 to hit.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah.

MATT: You also take 28 points of damage. It is magical damage, however, you don't– doesn't matter for you, being, it's a resistance against slashing, so you take 14 points of slashing damage from the strike. That's going to end its turn. That brings us to Percy.

TALIESIN: Who's that?

MARISHA: That's Ashley.

TALIESIN: That's Ashley?

MARISHA: That's Pike, yeah yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to yell at Pike, first thing.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Look into the wind, look into the typhoon, tell me what you see!

MATT: “What?” She hears you, yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run to the little stone pile, and out of idle curiosity, I'm going to try to shove a bunch of stuff away to see if there's anything in there, look at the stones or anything.

MATT: Okay, so you take your action, you start pulling the stones away. As you rummage through, you pull apart and you begin to see there is– where there was hard rocks, you're starting to find finer stones, until eventually you find sand. Just like the sand that you encountered in the previous room.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to take a handful, I'm going to grab a bunch of that and–

MATT: Okay, you reach in and as your hands disappear into the sand, there's no resistance once they hit the sand, they vanish into the sand.

TALIESIN: I put on my mask and I shove my head in.

MATT: Okay. You shove your head through.

SAM: Whispers.

MARISHA: Whispers!

LAURA: So many whispers!

TRAVIS: You know what this means, right? Jump in the fire.

SAM: Oh my god. Oh wait, we got to jump into all these things?

LAURA: Maybe. I don't know. How long is his name?

MARISHA: Yeah, how long is his name?

SAM: Mississippi.

TRAVIS: Rumpelstiltskin.

MARISHA: You already did water, I'm wondering if there's anything in the other one, or I might try fire.

LAURA: Oh. You're right.

SAM: No, you've got to go for the water.

TRAVIS: The element is going to be a quarter of the letters.

TALIESIN: I pull out my head and I yell, J-I.

LAURA: J-I.

SAM: K-A-J-I?

MARISHA: K-A-J-I.

LAURA: Kaiju.

MARISHA: K-A-J-I. But it could be any fucking order. Wait, wait, wait! Did anyone take note of the order on the cycle?

SAM and LIAM: It was a circle.

MARISHA: Never mind.

MATT: All right, Percy, that's your turn? You going to move?

TALIESIN: I burned a whole turn doing that, didn't I?

MATT: Yeah, that's going to be the rest of it. All right, Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. Seeing Vex jump in and seeing Percy stick his head in a wall, I run up to the fire column.

TALIESIN: Yeah! Yeah!

MARISHA: Right there. And see if there's anything in the fire.

MATT: Percy, you also suffered seven points of damage from the crushing and bludgeoning on your head as it passed through.

MARISHA: And I take the fire hand and I stick it, and I light up my fire and I stick it in the fire.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Does anything happen?

MATT: You put your hand in and your hand is still– it's hot because of the flame that's on it. As you put it in, it is a scorching hot pain.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You take two points of fire damage just from placing it in there.

MARISHA: Okay, I pull it out and I go fire elemental.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

TRAVIS: Do it, do it.

TALIESIN: You're my hero.

LIAM: Heat don't hurt.

MARISHA: And I stick my head, go into the fire.

MATT: Into the flame?

MARISHA: Into the flame!

(cheering)

LIAM: I think we should stop there. We should not go into the wind.

SAM: Where's the wind one?

LIAM: Center.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: Why? Was that sarcastic?

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: (Grog voice) It was lost on me. Your subtle humor is lost on me.

SAM: What else can we plug?

LAURA: I don't know.

SAM: Be sure to follow us at @CriticalRole.

LAURA: Hey, we're on twitter, you guys! @CriticalRole.

SAM: @CriticalRole is on twitter.

TRAVIS: Don't miss the beginning of the 50th episode.

MARISHA: I pull my head out and I go, M-A-L. The letters M-A-L.

SAM: Kajimal. Kajimal. His name's Michael Jackson.

MATT: All right, that's going to be your turn there. At the end of your turn, he's going to go ahead and use a point to do a claw attack against Scanlan again.

LIAM: His name is probably Jamal Porter.

MATT: Hm. That's a natural 20.

TRAVIS: Natural 20?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: No worries. I didn't need to live anyway.

MARISHA: Against Scanlan? Oh, Jesus Christ.

MATT: You take 38 points of slashing damage as the claw grabs you and slams you against the stone, and you can feel the claw actually pierce part of your throat.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

MATT: And as it withdraws, you can feel the blood beginning to pour. It didn't hit anything vital, but it's a serious wound–

SAM: All the vital stuff's below the belt.

MATT: All right. That ends Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Grog. This thing is tearing into Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I run over to Scanlan. How jacked-up are you?

SAM: I'm all right.

TRAVIS: Are you?

SAM: Totally fine.

TRAVIS: All right. Then I run down the steps and I jump into the tornado.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. You leap into it.

LAURA: Oh no, Grog can't read.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh no, that's true!

MATT: Pike looks over and sees you whoosh into the cyclone and vanish.

TRAVIS: (laughs) There's a couple of lines.

LIAM: Squiggly lines.

LAURA: It's like a–

LIAM: Snake shape and a box.

LAURA: There's a circle.

SAM: Two sticks and a snake.

LIAM: (Grog voice) Six. It said six.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Also ale.

SAM: Cake and a rope.

MARISHA: Good call.

LAURA: Was that O-I?

TALIESIN: This is why I'm the smart one.

MARISHA: You are. You are.

TALIESIN: Arsehole.

SAM: Check out our 50th episode next week, guys, with special guests Vin Diesel–

TALIESIN: It's going to be so fleek. Streets ahead.

MATT: Okay, you guys get the idea of what's going on, we're going to now bring this, because now shit's happening. So. Grog, after seeing this, though you cannot say to anyone what you found yet, you, having no tether, are drifting away from the portal and seeing it disappearing slowly away from you. What are you going to do?

TRAVIS: Can I grab my earring and say what I see?

MATT: You grab your earring, you say it. There's no response. You guys hear nothing.

SAM: He's gone.

MATT: And you're about 15 feet away from it now.

LAURA: Grog?

TRAVIS: Can I take my Chain of Returning and attach it to Craven Edge and throw it through the doorway that I see?

MATT: You can. Go ahead and roll for an attack.

LAURA: What if it hits Pike?

TALIESIN: Should've had a breakfast!

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23. Whoosh. You fling it through, and it catches something. You feel it's taut, you start pulling your way in, pulling your way in, pulling your way in. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA and MARISHA: It's Pike.

TALIESIN: Oh.

SAM: God. It's fine.

MARISHA: It's got to be Pike.

TRAVIS: Damage, oh, damage. Sorry, damage. I rolled the wrong thing. Please don't let it be Pike. Nine.

LAURA: Pike.

TRAVIS: 14.

LAURA: Plus 2d6 necrotic.

MATT: Yep, plus 2d6 necrotic damage.

TRAVIS: 30.

MATT: 30. 30 points of damage. Okay. You pull the chain and you make your way to the portal, you put your hands out, pull through, and as you do, the chain in your hand– you look and you can see now, grasping onto the edge of the wall, you see Pike, sweat dripping down her face as Craven Edge has embedded itself into her abdomen. She's holding it, and she looks at you with a gritted face and she goes, “It's okay, Grog. You're back, that's all that matters.”

LAURA: That's the saddest thing ever!

TRAVIS: I crawl through the door. Can I run to Pike? That's my turn.

SAM: Did you get any of his name?

MATT: Doesn't have a chance yet. At the end of this turn, it uses the last two points of its legendary actions to Teleport.

SAM: I'm going to Counterspell that.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Don't know why.

LIAM: Keep it away from Pike and Grog!

TALIESIN: It's always the right move.

LIAM: Yeah. Instinct, buddy.

MATT: All right. So now we get to go ahead and roll for this, I believe. Let me go ahead and check what level it is, I believe it's a– all right, this is a 7th-level spell.

SAM: Jesus. I mean, I wrote down crazy things, but it says at level four, roll plus five, versus ten plus level. I don't even know what that means!

MATT: Here, hold on. So DC equals ten plus level, so it's DC 17.

SAM: Okay. So I have to roll?

MATT: Using an ability check. Roll d20 and add five, trying to beat a 17.

SAM: Ability check at disadvantage.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Yeah, that's not going to happen.

LIAM: Yes it is, come on.

SAM: Well, that would've worked. The first one was an 11 plus five.

MATT: 16. One under. You go to Counterspell, but the image of its head, and seeing Pike wounded, it's too much for you and your hand shakes and you can't manage to clarify the Dispel Magic, as the whole sphinx vanishes and appears right next to Pike. All right. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: Can I try to make my wisdom save before I do anything, or does that come at the end?

MATT: At the end of your turn.

LIAM: All right. Then I'm going to come around the corner.

MATT: It's not in your sight, by the way, you don't see it.

LIAM: I know. Can I walk over, yeah, ten feet that way and see it scowling down at Pike.

MATT: You can, yeah, around the edge.

LIAM: And put three daggers in its flank.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: First one misses, it's a 13. 24. And a 15.

MATT: All right. 13, 24, 15.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Middle one hits.

LIAM: Eight. Eight points of damage. I'm going to try to shake off the fear.

MATT: Eight points. It does get sneak attack because it's adjacent to Pike.

LIAM: But am I at disadvantage because of the fear? I thought I was at disadvantage.

MATT: Oh, you're at disadvantage to all the attacks, yeah. Wait, I'm sorry. I thought those were your three attacks.

LIAM: I did three attack rolls, but I thought that to get sneak attack damage I need advantage, but if I'm afraid, I don't have advantage.

MATT: Right, but Pike's still adjacent. That's one of the ways you can get sneak attack, is either having advantage or an ally's adjacent.

LIAM: All right. I thought that meant that, sorry. All right, I'll take it. Four, seven, 13, 25. Added to what I said before, which was eight, so 33.

MATT: 33. So one dagger, two of them you throw and they vanish into the cyclone, consumed and thankfully return with magic or they would be gone for good. Third one you throw. It stabs into the shank of the sphinx, who growls, turns back to Pike. All right, is that your turn?

LIAM: I don't know what I rolled, so I'm going to roll again. 20.

MATT: 20. You manage to finally shake off the fear. All right.

LIAM: Can I use the rest of my movement?

MATT: You can, yes.

LIAM: I'm going to run up to the side of the sphinx.

MATT: You're there. All righty. Now produces two spiders. Jump out of the web. Both of them, the only thing they see, rush up to Vex. That is a natural 20 and a two. (laughs) So the second one misses you, first one you take 16 points of psychic damage, and that one vanishes on the impact. All right. That ends their turn. Up to the top, Vex, it's your turn.

LAURA: Grog, what did you see?

TRAVIS: Can I respond?

MATT: I would say make a wisdom saving throw. At the sight of what you've done to Pike and all that is happening, this is to see if you can shake from the stupor of what has happened.

TRAVIS: Nine.

MATT: He's not responsive right now.

LAURA: I guess I– Jesus. Can I bring Trinket out? That's stupid. If I, well, I'm going to go and try to see what's going on over there with the sphinx.

MATT: Okay, so you rush over right there?

LAURA: Can I see Grog?

MATT: You can, you can see Grog. As you rush around the corner, you can see the sphinx there, you see Pike with Craven Edge partially embedded in her abdomen, the chain now lax, as Grog is standing on the outside of the portal holding it in his hand, his eyes wide. The rage has faded now, by the way.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Can I run forward and cast Cure Wounds on Pike?

SAM: She's Pike!

LAURA: She's got a fucking sword in her! Can I help her?

MATT: Yeah, you could cast Cure Wounds if you want.

LAURA: I mean, does she still have a sword through her, can I pull her off of it and then cast it?

MATT: Sword is still inside of her right now, yeah.

LIAM: Don't do damage to yourself.

MATT: You can try and pull it out if you want to. Make a strength check. Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.

LAURA: I know, I– oh, natural 20!

MATT: And for the one who normally can't find the physical strength of activities like this, through the inspiration of seeing–

LAURA: It reminds me of what happened to Pike before.

MATT: Yeah. And that clear image crystallizes in your mind of when that glabrezu snatched her from you once. And with that, you find the strength to persevere, you reach out and grabbing the jagged blade take nine points of necrotic damage in touching the outside of the blade, but you pull, you can see the blood forming at the edge of your fingers as you yank it outside of Pike's body, and it clatters to the ground at the base of Grog's feet. Grog's still seeing this all before you, eyes wide open, mouth agape.

LAURA: Grog, snap out of it! And I cast Cure Wounds on Pike's stomach.

MATT: Okay, what level?

LAURA: Level three.

MATT: Level three. So 3d8 plus, I think it's– what's your modifier for wisdom?

LAURA: Three.

MATT: So 3d8 plus three. And that will end Vex's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Can I roll to see if I'm fearful?

MATT: That'll be the end of your turn.

SAM: Okay. Then I'm going to, as a bonus action, cast Healing Words on myself.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay, good to know.

SAM: I'll heal myself at level two. 2d4 plus five. Okay. Seven points, great. And then for my action I'll Dimension Door into the tornado.

MATT: Okay. You Dimension Door into the cyclone. You find yourself on the outside of the wind before it grabs you and pulls you in. You step through a portal and you're now drifting out in an expanse of air and cloud. There's no up, there's no down, there's no left or right, you see various masses of land slowly rotating in place as you see different gusts of wind floating about. You drift by and see a single stone that has carvings on it.

SAM: Dammit.

TALIESIN: You did this to yourself.

SAM: Great.

MATT: However, you have no anchor and you are drifting away from the opening you came through.

SAM: That's my action and my bonus. I have no movement.

MATT: Correct, so you were–

SAM: I'm gonna just do this.

MATT: Okay. You do that. There's, it's air, you're still drifting away. All right. That brings us to the top of the initiative round. Let's see. For this one, I need everyone in the room to go ahead and make another constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: So ready for a nap. 24.

MATT: 24. Vex, what'd you get?

LAURA: Six.

LIAM: Seven.

MATT: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Do I use my fire elemental constitution? 14.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay. Pike makes it.

LAURA: So hard to get these last two fucking letters.

MATT: Okay, so you rolled a 14?

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: All right, so Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, all three of you guys suddenly feel the wind pulled out from you once again, and you all age, and now I'm giving you the specifics here, you're aging each time this happens. Ten years. All three of you. Bones are starting to ache a little bit. Not terribly, but a little more than usual. Your body's now starting to feel the wear of time passage.

TRAVIS: If that's happened twice, they're 20 years older.

MATT: Yeah. 25 for those who got hit before.

SAM: Wait, the first time was 25 years?

MATT: The first one was 15, now it's an additional ten to those who were hit.

LAURA: The first one was 15?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Wow. But as a half-elf you have a longer life, so really at age 50, you're not that far in.

MATT: It's not huge, it's not like a major difference. You know, 25 years to a human, to Percy, would be a lot harsher than it is to you guys. It's minor differences. It is now the sphinx's turn, the sphinx is now going to (roars) roar even louder this time. This roar echoes out with a shockwave. I need everybody except for Scanlan to make another wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Fuck me.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Ten? And you were still frightened from previously, right? Because you did not shake that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I never shook it, still in a rage, but never shook it.

LAURA: But your rage ended.

MATT: You dropped the rage. All right. Pike. All right.

LAURA: Natural 20.

LIAM: 11.

MARISHA: 24.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: All right, so. Vax, suddenly as the blast hits, the fear hits you again as the sound vanishes and you can't hear.

LIAM: Mup.

MATT: There's nothing. You are completely deafened.

TRAVIS: Deafened?

MATT: As are you and Pike. However, because you were previously frightened, you find your muscles tense up and you are both paralyzed as well. You cannot move, you cannot speak, you cannot–

LIAM: And I'm not afraid, but I'm deaf.

MATT: You are afraid and deaf. Yeah. All right. Percy, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: We've both seen it, we can't say shit.

SAM: Well, I'm floating to my death, so.

TALIESIN: Bugger all, I got to fix this shit. Oh, what a clusterfuck.

SAM: Don't worry, I still have my lips. (blows whistle)

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Great. Okay. Where is– can you point to Vex in that?

TRAVIS: Wait, didn't I have Freedom of Movement?

MATT: This is Vex here. You do have Freedom of Movement. So you are not currently affected by paralysis. Look at you, remembering your buffs, buddy! So the fear still hits you, and your muscles tense, but you, looking over at Pike now frozen in place, you remember everything that's transpired and that holy divine energy that she imbued upon you glows from the inside, and your muscles return to you and you're still able to function.

TRAVIS: Oh, Pike!

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to turn around the corner.

MATT: Around here?

TALIESIN: Grog, say the bloody words!

MATT: Make another wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Come on, Grog. Snap out of it.

TRAVIS: Nine. At a disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Okay. All right, all right, all right. What the fuck am I going to do? I am going to hold my turn right here.

MATT: Okay, holding your action.

TALIESIN: Until such time as someone says the fucking letters that we need, and I'm going to be ready to yell them out.

MATT: All right, Keyleth. Actually, at the end of Percy's turn, the sphinx is going to go ahead. It's going to use one of its actions to do a claw attack now against– this is going to be against Pike. That is going to be a 15, which misses. The claw, even though she's paralyzed– actually, no, he has advantage on the attack because she's paralyzed. Rolled a one on the second one. Manages to hit her, but the armor and the shield takes the brunt of it, not dealing any physical damage to it. There's now frustration in the sphinx's voice as it's growling with each one of these screams. Now it is your turn, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay. Question: as a fire elemental, I can fly, right?

MATT: Does it say on the fire elemental? It should say movement: flight.

MARISHA: It says that I can, oh, movement? It doesn't really say, it says I can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide without squeezing.

MATT: Well, for the elemental form here, which I have a list of your elemental forms just in case. Fire elemental, speed of 50 feet. No, it cannot fly. It moves as a flame across the ground.

MARISHA: Can't fly. So if I go into that portal I'm going to be in the same fucking situation, I'm assuming.

TALIESIN: Sadly, there is only one of us who can fly, and very busy right now.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to drop my elemental form–

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: You still have my Immovable Rod?

LAURA: It's planted next to the water.

MATT: It's over there.

LAURA: But my rope is attached to it and it's dangling next to me. I dropped it when I healed Pike. So it's right next to me, I pulled the robe over to there.

MATT: Yeah, the robe that produces the rope is on the ground right now next to Vex.

MARISHA: Okay, before I drop elemental form I'm going to go pick up the rod.

MATT: What are you doing?

MARISHA: It's so I can move faster. Pick up the rod.

MATT: 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, and then you drop your form to grab the rope.

MARISHA: Drop my form.

MATT: And you're grabbing the what? The rod?

MARISHA: The Immovable Rod.

MATT: All right, so you click the rod off. You now have the rod with the rope on the end of it.

MARISHA: And do I still have movement now as myself?

MATT: No, you– in dropping the form, you've used most of– I'd say you have one more square of movement left.

MARISHA: I'll step forward a square.

MATT: This way or this way?

MARISHA: No, the other way. Yeah, yeah. And say, Vex, catch!

MATT: Okay, so you throw the Immovable Rod to her?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Make a dexterity check, easy enough for you.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: Yeah, you catch the rod, no issue.

LAURA: I know, it was really close.

MATT: All right. So is that your turn?

MARISHA: I think so. I think that's all I can do.

MATT: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. At the end of Keyleth's turn it's going to use another legendary action. This one, it's going to go ahead and reach out and strike at you, Vex, as you're now holding the rod.

LAURA: Of course.

MATT: That's going to be a 29 to hit. You suffer 28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw rakes across the front of your body, almost tossing you off your feet from the sheer force of the blow.

LAURA: 28 points?

MATT: 28 points. That brings us to Grog.

TRAVIS: I look down at Pike. Pike, buddy, are you all right?

MATT: You've gotten your senses back now at this point. You look at her, and she's still frozen in place. She can't move and you can see the sweat's still pouring from her face. The wound has stopped bleeding, the wound is still fresh and visible.

TRAVIS: And I call out, the letters inside the wind are O-R-I.

MARISHA: O-R-I.

LAURA: Maljikaori? Maljikairi?

LIAM: Karimaljika?

LAURA: Kaorimal?

MARISHA: Malkaoriji?

MATT: Anyway. Anyway, before you guys start doing this whole thing, take your turns to do stuff. Grog. What else do you want to do on your turn?

TRAVIS: I turn, I face the sphinx, and I don't do anything.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Craven Edge is on the ground, right?

MATT: Craven Edge is on the ground, yeah.

TRAVIS: That's it. That's all I do.

MATT: Okay. Ending Grog's turn, it is Pike's turn. Pike cannot move, fails the saving throw, unfortunately is still paralyzed, still frightened.

TALIESIN: I was holding my action for this.

MATT: Okay, what are you going to do?

TALIESIN: Maljikaori?

MATT: No response.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait, before you move it, before you move it, put it back, put it back, put it back. Okay, I want to write it down.

TALIESIN: Maorikalji!

MATT: Nothing.

LAURA: The order was fire, earth, water, air. That was the circle. So it could be in any of those orders, maybe.

MATT: You've got one more try before your turn's up, this is–

TALIESIN: Malkaoriji!

MATT: Nope. That is your turn, however. In the six seconds, you shout out, you come up with and shout out those three things. That ends Percy's turn. At the end of Percy's turn, it's going to use its third legendary action to go ahead and make another strike at Vex holding the rod. 25 to hit.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Takes another claw and rakes you for 28 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: I'm unconscious.

MATT: Vex falls unconscious on the ground from the blow, the rod clacks to the ground behind her. That ends that turn. All right. Oh shit, I did that out of order. It's fine. That's my fault. Percy shouldn't have got that turn, but we'll say it happened, it's fine. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm going to use my bonus action to disengage from the sphinx and I'm going to run around the whirlwind, and as I move I'm taking the rope which I already made a loop on, and I'm going to throw the loop over Grog's head on one end, and I'm going to jump into the whirlwind holding tightly– I'm going to, into there, I'm going after Scanlan.

MATT: The rope clenches onto your neck and you feel like you're being choked suddenly. Without even realizing this, as you shout this out, all of a sudden a lasso is thrown around your neck and pulls back and cuts off your air supply.

TRAVIS: (chokes) Okay.

MATT: And you vanish into the cyclone. The rope goes taut, pulling. You come through the portal and you can see, indeed, Scanlan's about 30 feet away and drifting.

LIAM: And I was hasted and I ran at the whirlwind.

MATT: Right. Which is why you're gaining on him, but it's still going to take a moment as you're both still drifting, because he also leapt through.

LIAM: It's really quiet in here. But then again it would be really quiet out of here as well.

MATT: Yep. All right, so. That's going to be the end of your turn, Vax. This spider now is going to leap over as two more, or sorry, three more leap out of this. They all rush up to Keyleth, she's the one visible person there, and all making strikes against you. That is 19 to hit.

MARISHA: Hits.

MATT: Eight.

MARISHA: Miss.

MATT: 23.

MARISHA: Hits.

MATT: And ten.

MARISHA: Miss.

MATT: All right, so you take 12 points of psychic damage as two of the spiders dissipate, leaving nothing but a psychic mist behind. All right. Top of the turn, Vex, I need you to make a death saving throw.

LAURA: Six.

MATT: Six. Mark off one of your failed death saving throws. Scanlan, your turn, you're floating out in space and you see all of a sudden through the portal, Vax come rocketing towards you, hand forward, clutching a rope in one hand, arm outstretched towards you. What do you want to do?

SAM: Well, as much as I appreciate the gesture, I'm going to try to Dimension Door out of here.

LIAM: I deftly roll my eyes so fucking hard.

MATT: You Dimension Door and you appear right at the doorway. You cannot Dimension Door through dimensions. But you make your way to the outside of the door. You are still drifting with the momentum you had going backwards, so you appear back at the door and start going backwards again.

SAM: Can I grab the door?

MATT: You can grab the rope.

LIAM: I don't see or hear him, so I assume he is healing my sister right now, and I feel comforted.

MATT: You see him vanish. There's the rope there that Vax is carrying. You can grab onto that and wrestle through. With that, Scanlan manages to pull himself through the portal, landing onto the side right there. And you're fine now. That's probably going to take your full action, everything to get there, but you're out–

SAM: Bonus too?

MATT: I'll give you a bonus, sure, because your movement.

SAM: All right. Do I have time to assess and see that she's dead?

MATT: She's doing pretty rough, yeah.

SAM: I will heal her.

MATT: All right. Healing Word.

SAM: Healing Word at level–

MATT: What level are you doing?

SAM: I don't have many levels. At level three.

MATT: Okay. So that's 3d4 plus five.

SAM: I roll?

MATT: Yes. 3d4 plus five. Finishing up Scanlan's turn–

SAM: 11.

LAURA: Hey, it's better than zero. Thank you. I'm alive!

MATT: All right. I need everybody in the room to roll another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh no.

MATT: Except for you, you're not in the room.

LAURA: This aging thing, is it permanent forever?

SAM: We'll find out later.

MARISHA: Maybe if we ask nicely, he'll make us young again.

LIAM: I probably look really good with ten years on me.

TRAVIS: 16.

LAURA: Nine.

LIAM: I'm not here.

MATT: Oh, sorry. Keyleth?

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: Pike succeeds. 17.

TALIESIN: 24.

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21. All right. So.

SAM: Do I also have to roll for fear?

MATT: At the end of your turn you would, yes. Actually, no, I think that's gone off of you now. It's fine. So Vex, you come to consciousness, and you age another four years.

LIAM: Aw, he softballed you with that one.

MATT: I rolled a four. It's a d20 every time. Yeah.

MARISHA: Shit.

TALIESIN: You basically just got Netflix, that's really all that happened.

MATT: It is now the sphinx's turn.

TRAVIS: We're all laughing and one of us is unconscious.

LAURA: We're seriously going to die.

TALIESIN: We're not going to die, we're doing great.

MARISHA: We're doing all right.

MATT: There. Next to Scanlan and Percy, two claw attacks against you. That is a 28. And 21.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my shield to glance off the 21. I'm going to use the shield of plus five AC.

MATT: Okay. Which reduces it to a–

TALIESIN: Versus AC of 23. It gives me a temporary AC of 23.

MATT: Right, so the second one would miss. So the first strike hits you for 28 points of slashing damage, the second one scrapes across the arcane barrier that appears before you from the brooch, and resist that. That's the end of its turn. Percy, you got your turn last turn when you shouldn't have, but I'm letting that fly–

TALIESIN: No, because I was holding my–

MATT: Oh sorry, you were holding it, yes.

TALIESIN: It's all part of the plan.

MATT: I confused myself. So yeah. Now it's your turn.

TALIESIN: I said Jamalkaori last time, if I recall.

MATT: You did.

TALIESIN: Kaorijimal.

MATT: Nothing.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to, while I'm saying all these things I'm going to be running around the corner back towards the spiderweb. Make another one.

MATT: What have you said so far?

TALIESIN: We said, Maljikaori–

MARISHA: Maorikaji.

TALIESIN: Jimalkaori.

MARISHA: And Kaorijimal.

MATT: Right, okay. So. You have two more if you wanted to do anything, Taliesin.

MARISHA: You should try that one.

TALIESIN: Is that as far as I can move right now?

MATT: You can move up to there, I think.

TALIESIN: Okay, I can't get any closer to the web?

MATT: Not for your full movement, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Kamaljiori?

MATT: At this point, all of a sudden the braziers flicker out. You notice as the wind cyclone begins to slowly drift to a minor wind curl. At this point in time, Grog, if you wanted to pull on that rope it would be a good time.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I turn around and grab the thing that's strangling my neck like a dog leash and I yank it in real hard.

MATT: With that, you, as you're drifting off, you turn around and see the doorway where the rope goes taut, and the door begins to close.

LIAM: Bye, guys.

MATT: You're pulling yourself in, and suddenly you're yanked through and come shooting out of it on the side. With that–

LIAM: I can't hear you.

MATT: –the angry demeanor of the sphinx has entirely shifted. And now it goes from like this low, feral position to a proud, honored beast, putting its paws forward, its shoulders high. “You have earned a name.”

LIAM: What did you say?

SAM: Oh yeah, they're deaf.

MATT: It raises a paw like this, at which point all the paralysis fades, all the fear fades, all the effects fade.

MARISHA: Are we young again?

MATT: The age is not dispersed.

SAM: Ever?

MATT: Hold on a second, let me see what it can do. Actually, no. It goes forward and looks at you, who's looking the worst for wear comparatively and says, “I can help but one of you.” And his paw goes out and touches you, there's a warm glow, and the age vanishes from you. “However, that is the extent of my magic this day. Perhaps the little one could help a few at this. It is but a rather challenging restoration.” Pike nods. “I can do that. I can do that.”

LAURA: I look at Vax and laugh at him because he's so much older than I am.

MARISHA: That's true, oh my god, you guys are never going to experience this ever again.

MATT: “I apologize for the formalities, but it is a pleasure to meet you, Vox Machina.”

TALIESIN: Hello.

MARISHA: Hi.

LAURA: You too.

SAM: What was his name again?

MATT: “Kamaljiori.”

LIAM: Hahaha, good one, that was a good one. Hazing. Who doesn't love hazing, right?

MARISHA: At about that time, I lift up my shoulder and I show him the Slayer's Take symbol.

MATT: He gives a nod.

SAM: Don't we get something out of this?

MATT: Looks to you and says, “I admire your impatience. The Vestiges that you seek. Some have been destroyed over this epoch. Others lie scattered across the planes. Some are sealed or hidden. Others have found an owner. You carry one now, I see.” The sphinx backs up and turns around on the steps and lays down, crossing its paws, glancing at you all, shoulders high. And a smile, it's warm, it's this interesting contrast to when you first entered. “Well. I happen to carry a Vestige here, if you will take it.”

SAM: I mean, sure, if you're getting rid of it anyway.

TALIESIN: It is most gracious of you.

MATT: Gets up and turns around to the back of the platform. Takes the marble from beneath its fur and holds it up to one of the doorways, which switches–

SAM: What?

LIAM: Dwarven Forge.

LAURA: Secret doors.

MATT: It pulls something from within (shing), and you see this single thin blade that vibrates as he pulls it out. The door closes, it puts the marble away. The blade goes into its teeth, and it steps back down the stairs. Takes the blade from its hand as it stops, and holds it out. It's impossibly small in its hand, it looks very dinky. “Here I keep the Mythcarver.”

MARISHA: Mythcarver?

MATT: “Granted to me by the White Duke himself before his passing. We were friends long ago. It is yours.” He takes the blade and sets it down on the stone. "But you seek the others that remain, yes?”

SAM: Yes, yes.

TALIESIN: Very much so.

MATT: “Fenthras, the Wrath of the Feywarden, a bow that felled Titans. It was lost in the Feywild in the Calamity.”

LIAM: Obviously for Scanlan.

LAURA: Obviously.

MATT: “It now acts as the heart of a cancerous tree, corrupting the verdant land there. The Plate of the Dawnmartyr, beacon of protection to the chosen of Pelor, gathers dust on a wall in the City of Brass, a trophy won by a fire giant in a card game from a Suutan bloodline that once donned it.”

MARISHA: What was that called again?

MATT: Don't worry, I wrote all these down for you guys.

LAURA: Oh, thank you. I know, I'm like, there's going to be a test later!

MATT: I know. I got this for you guys. “Cabal's Ruin, a magic-devouring cloak once used by an assassin to eliminate the unscrupulous den of Druja. It is now worn by a merchant-warrior with a missing eye in the walls of Ank'harel. The Spire of Conflux, a staff born from Melora's very breath, was devoured, along with its previous owner, by a goristro named Yenk in the endless maze of the Abyss.”

SAM: Let's go there!

MATT: “The Titanstone Knuckles were taken from the brutalized corpse of their proud owner, now worn by a terrible half-giant turned tyrant in Westruun. I sense you know this, tall one. I can taste your fear from here. Whisper, blade forged from metal pulled from the Far Realm, was a center to many a dark ritual. It now lies at the bottom of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship, The Shrew, in a storm 300 years ago near an island of glass. Know that all life is connected on an impossibly small level, beyond the mind's ability to understand on your level. Ideas transcend distance, language. Many share dreams, thoughts, inspirations without knowing. The fact that you are now aware of these, others too may now be drawn to the search as well. Beware. Now go. You have earned the name, you have earned the knowledge. The race is on.” And with that, sand begins to erupt from the two piles of rubble, swirling in a giant whirlwind of blasted stone and sand, you guys have to cover your eyes as it begins to completely consume the vision around you. You see the sphinx back up towards the top of the platform before the sand consumes even within 15 feet, ten feet, five feet of your vision. You lose sight of your friends around you, and for a second the panic hits you before the sand comes to a stop and drops to the ground. Looking around, you stand at the base of the triangular cavern entrance by the mountain range where you first entered the temple. And that's where we'll end tonight's game.

TRAVIS: Fucking shit.

LAURA: That got so much more intense than I ever thought it was going to.

TRAVIS: I thought it was going to be like a gentle education, like a gentle ribbing.

LAURA: Yeah, I thought we'd go and talk to this guy.

LIAM: Hey, we're friends with your girlfriend, want to give us some stuff?

TRAVIS: Matt, that was–

MATT: Well done, guys!

TRAVIS: A crazy-ass puzzle.

MARISHA: We can look at that list, so I can make some serious notes?

MATT: Yeah. There's a list for you guys.

TRAVIS: I'll make a copy of it, I'll make a copy of it.

LAURA: Do we need to go after all of them? We'll do it; we'll talk about it later.

MARISHA: I think we each need to be outfitted with something. We need our legendary weapons, you guys.

LAURA: We took the weapon off the ground before he portaled us out, right, Matt?

MATT: Yes, actually. In which case I will give this to you as you now have access to its capabilities.

MARISHA: Fenthras? Is that what it was– no.

MATT: No, the Mythcarver. It's a legendary longsword. This incredible silvered blade once belonged to the White Duke himself, and many more master bards before him. It resonates with nearby musical tones. It acts as a plus three longsword, and the weapon deals an additional 1d6 force damage upon a hit. Whenever you use your Bardic Inspiration feature, you gain advantage on attacks with this weapon until the end of your turn.

TRAVIS: Advantage on attacks?

MATT: So if you were to give somebody– use your bonus action before your attack, you would get advantage on any attacks with the weapon.

LIAM: Percy, that was made for you.

TALIESIN: I know, obviously. I'm so excited.

MATT: And whenever you use your Cutting Words feature against an enemy, the target also has disadvantage on its next saving throw.

LAURA: Wow!

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

SAM: Well, I guess I'll have to take it.

TALIESIN: I've got a weird question I'm going to throw out there. Did you pick your sword back up before all this mess happened?

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: Hey, the White Duke!

MATT: As Grog looks at his feet, the blade that still laid there before you, tethered to you by chain, still remains at your feet as you see the chain amongst the sand.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

MATT: Still jagged, still extended, still in its full form. All right. So. Well done, everyone. We'll pick this up next week for the 50th episode, so excited.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you guys for sticking around for this very long episode.

LAURA: That was long.

MATT: I know it was long, I wanted to try and get through this before we started the 50th.

MARISHA: Oh my god, it's midnight.

MATT: Yeah, sorry guys. So long. Hope we're cool.

TRAVIS: We're cool.

LIAM: (singing) It's the last midnight.

MATT: All right you guys, well, thank you so much for watching. Have a good night, and is it Thursday yet?

LIAM: Yes. Two more minutes. 

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons, roll dice, and stuff. Tonight is a special episode; it's a special 50th episode. We've made 50 of these! To kick off the evening's festivities before the game, we want to show our first big present to you guys, something we've been working on for about a little over a month. We hope you guys enjoy it. Let's go ahead and have a look at the new full intro for Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: And welcome back, guys!

(cheering)

MATT: That was fun! We've been silently working on that for a long time.

MARISHA: It was so hard to keep secret.

MATT: I know. Every edit that came in was awesome. Yeah, we all went together in Simi Valley for a day and shot, and did wonderful photos, which we actually have wallpaper going up tonight!

LAURA: That is correct. It'll be going up very soon.

MARISHA: I guess I could go right–

LAURA: Do it now, he just said it!

LIAM: We're doing it live! We're doing it live.

SAM: We're releasing a special 50th episode wallpaper all for you guys to use on your home PCs.

MARISHA: On the Critical Role Twitter and Facebook right now.

SAM: Download it!

MATT: There you go.

MARISHA: Download it, @criticalrole.

LIAM: Good, pressure's off.

MARISHA: It's done.

MATT: It's all over. Episode's over. No, thank you guys for coming tonight. Hope you enjoyed that. We have some really awesome people that helped out with that. I'm going to go ahead and get some thank-yous here. We have, first off, a big thank you to Jan-Michael Losada, our DP for that shoot; Pamela Joy who did all the incredible photography, and Loretta Richert, both of them helped us find and secure the location and shot an incredible series of photos that we'll be using in upcoming episode releases and promotional stuff! So check that out. You guys have been amazing, thank you so much. Next up, I want to go ahead and thank Dave and James Codeglia who are from Ghostlight. They did all the special effects you see as well as the color grading and the editing. They did a phenomenal job on this, and big thanks to you guys. It's far more than I ever expected it could be. Ghostlight is awesome.

TRAVIS: Are we cutting to that title camera so they can see the addresses?

MATT: Yeah. For makeup we want to thank Misti Dawn, Talor Bianca Appice, and Heather Galipo, they did an amazing job. And Travis, of course, for sitting in the makeup chair for a long time.

TRAVIS: It was cold (laughs). It was real cold.

MARISHA: Four hours! Specifically, Misti did a lot of our beauty makeup, Bianca did Travis, and Heather did all of our ears. Because ears take a lot of time!

MATT: You guys did an amazing job. Next up, for our illustrious costumers, we have Jessica Dru, who did an amazing job, Jessica Dru Johnson for selling me the costumes, Vanessa Walton, who made your wonderful headpiece–

MARISHA: Yes, and she has an Etsy store, actually: Creature of Habit on Etsy. So follow her on Instagram and of course you can go– she makes all these amazing flower crowns; she's basically a real-life faerie.

TALIESIN: It's a magical Instagram.

MARISHA: It is a magical Instagram, Creature of Habit.

MATT: Check that out. And of course Bryan Forrest for both applying a lot of the armor to Pike and a lot of individuals here. He brought a lot of the great costume pieces and armor, and was one of our illustrious goblins; he got killed as two different goblins! Took two arrows, one in the face, one in the chest. A great stuntman, Bryan, thank you so much for helping out with that.

MARISHA: Thank you Bryan, we love you!

MATT: Jon Enge who was our special effects supervisor on set and was the goblin who got stabbed in the back. He was amazing.

MARISHA: And he's got a youtube channel, Mars Rising, which is great. And I did a Splinter Cell guards sketch that I did with him a while ago

TALIESIN: He and I used to perform at the Ren Faire together, it was a thing.

MARISHA: Oh! That's awesome; Jon's awesome. Go check his stuff out.

LIAM: You worked at Ren Faire?

TALIESIN: Oh, shut up. Suck it.

TRAVIS: Lord Taliesin!

MATT: Of course, Jason Charles Miller, who's a friend of the show, who's been on the show as Garthok the half-orc rogue, did the new theme, as well as the old one, but he re-upped for the new theme, extending it and making it that much more epic. Thank you so much. And Geoff Bisente did a lot of the sound design on it as well. You guys kicked ass on making it sound as good as it did. Check out their stuff, they're amazing. I think Jason should have the actual new song up on iTunes soon in case you want it for a ringtone or something. And last but certainly not least, we have Avery Faeth, who did the amazing Percy costume.

TALIESIN: My coat! She's an amazing coat designer. She's got a–

MARISHA: She's a coat designer.

TALIESIN: She did the coat, she's an amazing cosplayer and costume designer and you can find her on Sickhorse all over the place.

MATT: And Kai Norman, who you've seen on the show, he actually did our casts of the K'Varn horn, and his incredible work. He did Percy's gun. He did a number of the props we used for it, he's great. You can find him at @KommissarProps. Additional costuming done by Anne Valiant, who did an amazing job helping us out getting the costume pieces we needed for it. As well, a big shout-out to Labyrinth of Jared at Masquerade Ball who also helped provide a lot of the costumes for the shoot, and Sword and the Stone who helped provide a lot of the weaponry and armor, along with Bryan. So thank you guys, all of you so much, for helping make this happen. We're really excited and we hope you liked it!

TRAVIS: Can you put the first one up again, because we didn't get the Pamela Joy title– yeah. It's the only one we missed. They were so instrumental and did such a lovely job.

LAURA: Yeah they did!

MARISHA: And Pam did the photo of the wallpaper.

LAURA: She's actually shot all of our photos from the very beginning. She's freaking amazing.

TRAVIS: We have so much, you guys, so much.

MARISHA: Go follow her on Instagram! She's great.

MATT: All right. So getting into our actual announcements here, try and cruise through this as fast as possible.

SAM: It's our special episode; I thought everyone was dressing up.

LAURA: We're all wearing our shirts

MARISHA: You're appropriate for Scanlan.

SAM: You all look like shit!

LIAM: Sam, can I show you my snake?

(oohing and aahing)

TRAVIS: Bigger than I thought it'd be!

MATT: Strangely, he lost it for a few sessions.

LIAM: This too shall pass.

MATT: All right, so: 50th episode, guys!

(cheering)

MATT: Can't believe we made it this far! And more to come. 50 more! Hopefully.

LIAM: Hey look! Ashley's here!

ASHLEY: Hey! I just landed. Not landed in a plane, but just drove in.

MATT: Drove all across the country, from New York.

ASHLEY: From, yes. Drove in from New York.

LAURA: So what does that mean, Ashley?

ASHLEY: I'm here for a little while.

(cheering)

MARISHA: She's back!

ASHLEY: I'm back for a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yay, Pike!

ASHLEY: Probably for a couple months, a few months, we'll see. We're pushing it for a few months.

MARISHA: That sounds better.

ASHLEY: I'm excited and I'm nervous, but I'm excited.

TRAVIS and ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: I'm so glad you could join us, and welcome back, Ashley.

ASHLEY: Thanks. Thank you.

MATT: Also tonight we're putting up for the next two weeks on pre-order a brand new set of “How Do You Want To Do This” hoodies, which I'm wearing here.

LAURA: It's Alternative Apparel and it's super-duper-super-duper cozy inside.

TRAVIS: Look at that! Look at that.

ASHLEY: That's so softy-puffy.

MARISHA: They're super soft.

LAURA: You could use it as a pillow, you could use it as a hoodie.

ASHLEY: You could wear it on a plane.

SAM: Where are all the other places they could wear it?

ASHLEY: On a train.

LAURA: Dinner, you could wear it to dinner.

TALIESIN: You could wear it in a boat!

SAM: With a goat?

TALIESIN: You could put it on a goat.

MARISHA: To Big Lots.

TALIESIN: At work or on the go.

LIAM: Keep this going all night long.

MATT: Two hours.

SAM: It's this content that you've demanded.

(laughter)

MATT: So yeah, these are up on the store, or should be, and will be up for pre-order for the next two weeks. If you want one, get one! Because they're cool. I like them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we all have one.

MATT: Indeed. All right, next up, Critmas is tonight. So we got that coming up after the show.

LAURA: Just a few packages.

MARISHA: Yeah, just a few cartloads

MATT: We're going to do our best to keep it as organized and as expedient as possible so we can get to bed at a decent hour, especially those of us who have like 8:00am call times in the morning. Travis.

TRAVIS: I'm going to stay as long as I can.

MATT: (laughs) But yeah, so stick around for that. You get to watch us all cry forever, because that's what happens every time.

TRAVIS: Cry forever.

MATT: A couple other announcements: has here on the list “posters.”

TRAVIS, LIAM, and SAM: Posters?

MATT: Posters. Somebody must've put that on the list.

LIAM: Maybe later.

SAM: What's a poster?

LIAM: There's four of them on a bed.

MATT: There you go, that makes sense.

TALIESIN: If somebody says they're one thing but really they're just not all that.

MATT: That makes sense. Quick announcement, an event coming up: a convention on May 26 to 29 in Atlanta called MomoCon. I will be a guest at that, so all you east coast folks around Atlanta come say hello! I have panels, and talks, and autographs to give, and cool artwork you can pick up. So yeah, MomoCon, May 26-29, hope to see you guys there. Me and Marisha are both announced to be guests at the Haven Expo in Mackay, Australia on July 2nd, so all you folks in the outback, you'll want to come hang out with me and Marisha at the beginning of July.

ASHLEY: (Australian accent) In the outback!

MATT: Just like that.

ASHLEY: (accented) Going to get a bloomin' onion?

MATT: I'm so sorry.

LAURA: I'm sure they're really thrilled about that.

MATT: She's back for ten minutes, guys.

ASHLEY: I know a lot of Australians.

SAM: You've already offended an entire continent.

MATT: You and Johnny Depp in the same week, come on. So yeah, hopefully we're looking forward to seeing a bunch of you guys down under at the beginning of July. Let's see, reveal secret Scientology message and ascend to Xenu, that's on the list. We got that one situated.

TALIESIN: Who put this one together?

MATT: Rat Queens! The next Rat Queens issue coming up. 16, I guess? Issue 16 is the number? Has a series of pages in which all of Vox Machina have a wonderful cameo.

SAM: It's amazing. We're in a comic book. We did it.

TALIESIN: Has that not publicly been seen yet, is that not out yet?

SAM: Some pictures have been, but not all of it.

MARISHA: We have transcended, you guys.

TALIESIN: We are fiction now.

ASHLEY: That's so crazy.

MATT: Yeah. Isn't it? One more thing I want to mention: a really great game called Masquerada; I play the lead character, Cicero Gavar. It's been developed by a great studio named Witching Hour. They put up a Kickstarter today to see if they can make the game as good as it possibly can be– that final push. As an independent/indie studio and an indie product, they're putting out a phenomenal isometric RPG. Great voice talent that includes Jennifer Hale, Dave Fennoy, it's a great cast. Check it out on Kickstarter if it's something you think you'd be interested in, and possibly helping them polish it and make it phenomenal. So check that out. Anything else you guys want to announce?

LIAM: Yeah! Can I get a CritRole?

ALL: CritRole!

LIAM: Boy, I always love sitting at the table with my dice and having a nice cozy wooden box to keep my dice in. Wyrmwood Gaming makes all kinds of wooden boxes to hold your dice in. We have them here, we have all kinds. There's these, there's these– they hold dice!

SAM: Those seem really remarkable, Liam.

ASHLEY: Wait, what is this one?

SAM: Is there anything any bigger?

LIAM: In due time.

LIAM: Wyrmwood Gaming, you know them already because we talk about them non-stop, friend of the show. If you use the code CritRole, you'll get free shipping. Also Wyrmwood Gaming has a kickstarter up this month for their Sentinel box, which holds–

ALL: Ooh!

ASHLEY: What is this?

LIAM: It holds your cards, it holds your dice, there's a bluetooth doohickey in it so you'll never lose your box with dice and cards. And you can get all kinds of woods, there's all kinds of tiers, you can get the Critical Role logo etched onto any kind of box that they have. And if you want to go full wizard you can get the shnazzy Masterworks box, did I get that right?

LAURA: It is masterworks.

ASHLEY: I want that one!

TRAVIS: I think that's one of the Vestiges.

LIAM: So, check it out. Wyrmwood Gaming, they got a Kickstarter, they got a website. They're our good buddies.

MATT: All right. So, anything else anyone wants to talk about or mention?

MARISHA: I mean.

MATT: Because if not, I think we may have to watch that intro again.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, do it again! Do that shit again, please!

MATT: Let's watch that intro again.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: And welcome back. I remember writing the script for that and going, “We're going to have to cut all this.” And then we didn't. I'm so happy how it turned out.

MARISHA: Mainly because we ran out of time.

MATT: Like, “Well, we got to do it. Make it work.”

TALIESIN: “There's no time to do anything else, other than this.”

MATT: “We can't cut the tentacle creature. I don't know how we'll do it, but it's in there.” Let's go ahead and bring us back into the realm of Exandria and catch us up to what happened last time. Vox Machina, a group of adventurers currently on the path to try and usurp and destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collection of chromatic dragons that have torn through Tal'Dorei and currently reign supreme over the partially ruined cities that dot the landscape. The largest of them, and apparently the leader, Thordak the Cinder King sitting in the main city of Emon, forcing you guys to flee. You've gone about and discovered these artifacts, these legendary items known as the Vestiges of Divergence. Ancient magical weapons and equipment from the last great war, the Divergence. And these seem to be a key in which you can ascertain a level of power and a means of destroying these creatures. Upon seeking information about these, you traveled south to the Frostweald, where you battled a camp of orcs, freeing survivors from Westruun's attack, and managed to walk your way into the deep den of a forgotten Ioun temple where Osysa, the sphinx's mate, resides. After traversing past traps and puzzles you made your way to the main chamber in which the nameless sphinx demanded you reveal that you have earned its name. During this battle you traveled through portals to other elemental realms to seek out the information to hopefully devise the title of this sphinx before it was too late. During which, Grog leapt through, if I recall, one of these portals into the Elemental Plane of Air. Set adrift without a means of returning, he took his Chain of Returning, attached it to Craven Edge, and threw it through the portal. It found purchase and you pulled yourself through, face-to-face with Pike, with the blade embedded in her abdomen. The weapon, which had achieved its maximum strength potential of devouring the essence of others, transformed during this battle and has been in its rather intense and dangerous form since. You guys managed to piece together the name of this sphinx, at which point the battle ended and it presented to you the information you required. It gave you the information of the Vestiges that still exist, to its knowledge, and you were escorted via immediate sandstorm out of the temple and now stand at the edge of the Stormcrest Mountains and the Frostweald Forest itself. So. You all take a moment to gather your thoughts, think over what just transpired, and think on your next course of action.

LAURA: Well, I want that bow. (laughs)

MARISHA: I heard a few things that seemed very desireable.

LIAM: How is Pike?

SAM: Yeah, Pike, are you alive?

ASHLEY: I– yes.

(laughter)

LAURA: He healed us all up before we left, right?

ASHLEY: He healed us. Yes, I'm fine! I'm fine.

MATT: Well, not completely, you guys healed from a couple of spells that were cast at the time, but you haven't had a rest.

MARISHA: But some of us are still older, right?

MATT: Indeed.

LIAM: Is your stomach closed?

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: You go and inspect the armor itself, the plates that separated and scraped from the impact of Craven Edge's blade. The wound itself seems to have at least stopped bleeding as part of the healing magic and the wound has closed, though you're still in a relatively damaged state post-battle. You guys haven't had really a moment to recover and heal what you could. She seems to be okay. There's still that lingering sweat from the stress and the impact of the blade, but nothing seems to be mortally endangered about her current state.

LIAM: Do you need a moment, do you need to speak to Sarenrae?

ASHLEY: I think I'm okay. Do I know what hit points I'm at?

MATT: Yes. You're at 63.

ASHLEY: I'm doing okay.

LAURA: What time is it?

MATT: Right now, from the time it took you guys to go through the temple and the strangeness that is the shift of time around the temple, it's probably mid-day. Pretty much the same time you entered the temple.

MARISHA: Weird.

TRAVIS: I'm really sorry about that.

ASHLEY: Hey, it's okay, Grog. I know you didn't mean to.

TRAVIS: No. No, I didn't. I was floating away, you should've seen the inside. It was wind everywhere.

ASHLEY: It sounds pretty crazy.

TRAVIS: Yeah. And I was like, what would my buddy Pike do? She would take the sword and attach the chain to it and throw it through the door! And then you were there!

ASHLEY: It's okay, Grog! I'll be fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but you're my best buddy!

ASHLEY: Oh, Grog.

TRAVIS: Do you want one of my healing potions, are you sure you're all right?

ASHLEY: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay. I think if we just– (laughs) I'm excited to see you guys.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Are we taking a rest? I don't know how many–

LAURA: It's mid-day!

TALIESIN: I think a short rest would not be a bad idea.

MARISHA: I don't think this is actually the time of day, I don't think nature works the same around this temple.

TRAVIS: What do you mean? It's magic time of day?

MARISHA: Kind of, but it's always magic time of day.

LAURA: So maybe we should hang out in the mouth of the cave and take a short rest

MARISHA: I'm all right with that.

LAURA: Yes?

ASHLEY: I would be okay with that.

MATT: Ashley, you've used a 5th-level spell. How many 4th-level spells do you have, because you used two I believe?

ASHLEY: Three 4th-level.

MATT: So you have one left.

LAURA: Maybe we should take a long rest.

MARISHA: We could try and hoof it home.

TALIESIN: I think we start moving in that direction and when nightfall comes we make camp.

TRAVIS: Towards the campsite?

LAURA: Unless I was healed, and I don't remember being healed, I'm at 11 health points. So I'm feeling a little sore.

ASHLEY: Oh gosh!

SAM: He only healed a couple of us.

MARISHA: I thought she was the one that he–

LAURA: He healed me back to my age.

MATT: Yeah, the aging effect was restored, but only to her. The rest of you are still aged up based on the effect of the lair of the sphinx.

MARISHA: That's something we're going to have to Restoration away.

TRAVIS: Please, I'm handsome as fuck right now, come on.

LAURA: Did you get aged?

TRAVIS: Like a fine wine. Yeah, I got aged.

ASHLEY: Can you do Greater Restoration on a group?

MATT: No, on an individual each time.

ASHLEY: Who is the oldest?

TRAVIS: Well, she was.

LAURA: I was and he healed me.

LIAM: Typically Scanlan is the oldest, but I've been aged the most maybe.

LAURA: He's really fucking old right now. Look at all those wrinkles.

ASHLEY: How old are you?

LAURA: His ears are starting to droop!

MATT: If I recall, you aged close to roughly 20 to 25 years.

ASHLEY: You look like a fine wine, you just got better with age.

LIAM: I knew that this was coming, I just thought I had more years until it happened.

ASHLEY: They gray looks great on you, the salt and pepper hair.

MARISHA: You should really look at this as a nice peek into the future. It's not bad.

LIAM: Yeah, so–

ASHLEY: Would you like to be younger?

TRAVIS: Young again?

ASHLEY: Would you like to be young again?

LIAM: It's probably a good idea.

LAURA: Are you sure you want to do it, Pike, are you sure?

LIAM: You could do it tomorrow, could you take care of my sister first, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yes. We need to get you into better order, okay? All right, where we at here?

TRAVIS: Oh, I don't cast that.

LIAM: Give her the works.

MARISHA: So, we are taking a short rest? I'm going to burn a couple of hit dice.

LAURA: Shorty rest and then we'll walk.

MATT: Everyone taking a short rest?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: Yes?

TRAVIS: (emphatically) Yes.

ASHLEY: I'm going to heal her up.

LAURA: I mean, I could roll my own hit dice.

ASHLEY: No, no, it's my job.

TRAVIS: So I lose all the buffs, right?

MATT: Here's what happens. So as you guys are taking a rest, you step a little bit away from the group, sit down and hold the blade. Chain's still attached across your lap. Just look down at it and you can see it's still pulsing with the power of all the life energy that it'd taken before. And as you take a moment, see to your wounds, relax, recover from the intense rage and all the emotional pain that's transpired here, the blade begins to shrink. You hear the slight crackle (squeal) as the metal begins to creak and pull backward, all the jagged edges pulling into the central singular curved blade at the front of it. As it hits, it seems to almost shrink slightly smaller than it was before and the metal creaks for a second and a voice in your head goes, (breathes heavily) “Hungry–” Make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: Oh shit. Now it's going to steal his strength.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MARISHA: What?

LIAM: Eat it, sword.

MATT: For but a moment, you sense a very similar feeling, one that– it's been really since the battle with K'Varn when all of the light in the world vanished for a second and darkness took your consciousness, and that same cold sensation starts to stem from the blade itself like it's actually trying to pull you into it, and you resist it. And you stand there and look at the blade and it just– in comparison to its larger form, it looks small. It's the same size it was since you originally got it, but you look at it there in this long, still silence as you try and conjecture what just transpired. And in that silence you hear the voice once again go, “Feed. Now.”

TRAVIS: I don't have anything to feed you.

MATT: “Find something.”

TRAVIS: (exhales) All right, all right, all right. What?

LAURA: Who you talking to, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm so hungry. My stomach's rumbling.

SAM: Don't we have our cold pack of food?

MARISHA: We do and we have some boar meat.

LAURA: Yeah, sure.

ASHLEY: Or some chicken?

LAURA: Yeah I did, I think I did take quite a bit of chicken.

SAM: Love me some chicken.

MATT: As you open the freezer chest there's a (poof) of chicken-scented smoke and mist that vanishes.

LAURA: Aw, the chicken, we can't take it. That's okay, I've got boar meat. Do you want to feed your stomach the boar meat?

TRAVIS: What? My stomach?

ASHLEY: Yeah, are you hungry?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I would not turn down some delicious boar.

LAURA: I'll mark it down to half the boar meat is gone now, you guys.

SAM: Wow, he's a big eater. That was a lot. That was a whole boar.

LAURA: Well, he's a big guy.

LIAM: You're a good hunter, though, it's not really–

LAURA: That's right. Well?

TALIESIN: We can find some more boar if we have to.

SAM: If we're rested, are we going to set off again?

MATT: You guys can use your hit dice if you want to, to heal up.

TRAVIS: Do I get a level of exhaustion back or no? Long rest?

MATT: No, long rest for your exhaustion.

TRAVIS: Fuck!

ASHLEY: So short rest means–

LIAM: That sword is an asshole.

SAM: Be honest.

TRAVIS: That should've been at disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Yeah, should've been at disadvantage.

MATT: Roll again.

MARISHA: Oh fuck! No!

TALIESIN: Do it!

LAURA: You have to roll again?

SAM: He's exhausted.

ASHLEY: Fuck!

MARISHA: No! You're lying!

SAM: What is it?

TALIESIN: It's a one. He rolled a one.

LIAM: (high-pitched) What are the odds?

TRAVIS: 5% both times.

LIAM: Everybody roll for initiative

LAURA: No joke, though!

MATT: As you guys finish your rest, and you're all gathering the next stage of your advancement, you watch as Grog stands up and starts walking into the snow of the forest with the blade out, topples and falls to one knee, then falls face-first in the snow.

SAM: (yells)

ASHLEY: Grog? I run over to him.

LAURA: We all run out.

SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: He's still, he's cold, there are no signs of life.

LIAM: Roll him over, roll him over! Grog!

LAURA: I slap him across the face.

LIAM: Yeah. Punch him across the face. Grog! Pike?

SAM: Heal, heal, heal!

ASHLEY: I grab the sword and I take it off of his– away from him, off of his person.

MATT: Okay, you pull the blade and you take it and you shove it off, and the chain's still attached to the side of his arm. You have to pull– make a strength check.

LIAM: Use those gauntlets.

LAURA: Oh yeah, 19!

ASHLEY: What do I– roll the 20?

MATT: And add four to it.

ASHLEY: 11?

MATT: 11, that's enough. You (clink) and you pull the chain off the side of his forearm, toss the blade and it (scrapes) skids to a stop in the snow, cutting a shallow swath through the little bit of the embankment. Grog's still rolled on his back, eyes just dead, lifeless.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: Pike is it the sword, is it the sword?

ASHLEY: I feel like it's the sword, I mean we all know that sword has been weird.

LAURA: Can you Greater Restoration him?

ASHLEY: Yes, I'll Greater Restoration on Grog.

MARISHA: While she does Greater Restoration, I want to go over and–

LIAM: Break it.

LAURA: Don't break it!

MARISHA: – grab the sword and see– yeah, actually, can I do like a–

SAM: Don't–

MARISHA: What?

SAM: Don't break it.

MARISHA: Why not?!

SAM: His soul could be inside of it

LAURA: What do you mean, his soul could be inside of it?

SAM: I touched the sword, it spoke to me, it craves strength from other beings

MARISHA: Wait, what do you mean it spoke to you?

MATT: Here's my question to you, Pike. What spells do you have?

ASHLEY: Okay, so short rest–

MATT: Short rest doesn't give you any spells back. What level spells do you have still?

ASHLEY: I have a 5th-level. I have one 5th-level, which is Greater Restoration.

MATT: Right, you have Greater Restoration as an option there. What other spells do you have prepared?

ASHLEY: Aw, shit. I mean, Cure Wounds? No, that's not going to do anything.

MATT: Because from your knowledge and experience, Greater Restoration removes serious curses, it removes avenues–

ASHLEY: But wouldn't that be–?

MATT: Grog, though you are having a hard time coming to terms with it, in the back of your head there's a part of you that knows that right now, Grog in the snow is dead.

ASHLEY: Oh no!

LIAM: Where can we take him, where can we take him?

LAURA: How can he be, how can he be dead?

LIAM: Can we take him to Gilmore, can we take him to–?

MARISHA: Scanlan, what should I do with this sword?

SAM: Don't break it.

MARISHA: Should I cast something through it to try and purge whatever it is out of it?

SAM: You could try to do Greater Restoration on the sword to see if that would somehow free the soul from it or–

MARISHA: I can do like a Sunbeam spell, that's like a light spell.

LIAM: Who could we take him to, could we tree to Gilmore?

LAURA: He wouldn't know anything about these– Can we go back in?

MARISHA: I didn't bring anything because we decided to hoof it.

LAURA: What about going back to Kamal?

MARISHA: I didn't bring a transportation spell because we decided to walk.

LAURA: No, but he's right inside the cave, what if he knows things? The sphinx!

SAM: The sphinx– yeah. We could go to the sphinx.

ASHLEY: I have Heal, I have one 6th-level.

MATT: Heal? Heal restores damage or damaged flesh to living entities.

LAURA: Me and Scanlan go back into the cave and search for Kamal again.

TALIESIN: I'm grabbing the sword and taking it to a corner and I'm going to stare at it for a second.

MATT: Okay. What are you doing, you're going to…?

LAURA: Me and Scanlan take flight and we go back in and we try to find Kamal again.

MATT: Okay. You guys cruise into the cavern and as you sit inside where the stairs were that led into the temple, it's solid stone.

LAURA: Shit!

MATT: There's no sign of an entrance whatsoever to this temple.

ASHLEY: Wait, wait. I have Revivify!

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Learned?

ASHLEY: Yes. Yes yes yes yes yes.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Has it been enough time?

ASHLEY: You touch a creature that has died–

MATT: Within the last minute.

LAURA: Has it been a minute? He just did it, it just happened!

TALIESIN: It's barely been a minute of real time.

LAURA: We just ran over!

ASHLEY: I wasn't even looking at my 3rd-levels.

MATT: Ashley, go ahead and roll an initiative check.

ASHLEY: Oh, goodness. Okay.

TALIESIN: Can I assist with a whisper to the sword?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Can I inspire her?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: You do first.

SAM: I just hold her hand and I look in her eyes and I just say, “Please, Pike, please. Please. I love him as much as you do. Please.”

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Take your d10, and if you want to go ahead and use that now or make this as part of the resurrection ritual, which we're now undergoing.

LAURA: Oh my god.

ASHLEY: Can I do this first? Just to see if it works?

MATT: Well, what'd you roll for your initiative?

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: 14, okay. You get to his body and his back rolled in the snow looking up, just as that window of time begins to fade for the magic to have any effect. You reach down and you grasp his cold-muscled chest and you find the one singular thread, that little soul thread that's still connected to the essence of his eternal being that once resided within this corpse and you clutch onto it with the magic and hold on to it to begin this ritual. Who wishes to bring something to this ritual? You have hold of the thread right now, you need something stronger to keep him here.

LAURA: Is that stupid? (laughs anxiously)

TALIESIN: No! It's not stupid!

LAURA: Okay, okay. Then I reach into the Bag of Holding and I get out Grog's cask of ale.

MATT: Okay. And–? And what do you do with it?

LAURA: Okay. I pour a little in his mouth. Just a little bit, so he doesn't choke.

MATT: (laughing) You reach over and you grab the edge of his beard and pull his mouth open, it's hanging limply. You pull off the cork of the cask and begin pouring it and it spills down the side into the snow, darkening it on the sides of his head.

LAURA: I turn his head so he doesn't drown in it.

MATT: Understood. Make a persuasion roll.

LAURA: This is so stressful. 16?

MATT: Okay. The ale seems to slide back into the throat and find its way in towards the stomach. There is no swallowing motion whatsoever, but it appears that at least it's not drowning him or blocking his airway. You're clutching onto the spirit here. You only have a few moments left before the magic is lost. Who wishes to–

LIAM: While that's going on I walk off 30 feet away and I fall to my knees on the ground facing away. I know you are not what I want. But you are what we need. And I will put aside my reservations and serve you. It is too soon for him, we need him. He is needed. I will set aside my reservations and serve you. Please.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a religion check.

LIAM: 15.

MATT: 15. As you're looking up into the frozen boughs of the trees before you, a little bit of snow begins to fall from what was once the still air. It begins to dot the top of your face and touch your nose, and as the first cold singular snowflake hits, your vision goes dark again. In that darkness, you feel your breath go cold as well, and your whole body is locked in place like it can't move. And all you see is the white porcelain face of the Raven Queen step out of the darkness as her hand comes up and touches the side of your cheek. And a voice in your head, a familiar voice, says, “I believe that every death has its place.” And the hand lets go and pulls back. Who wishes to make the third and final aid to this ritual?

SAM: Have I already aided by inspiring Pike?

MATT: Well, if Pike wants to go ahead and make a roll of some sort of attempt at this, that would help as Bardic Inspiration.

SAM: But I can't help again?

MATT: If you wish to do your own thing, you can.

ASHLEY: Just for extra, yeah.

SAM: The sword seems to want power and strength. I don't know if it will help, but maybe if we gave Grog some extra strength it might help him to come back, so. I have a Potion of Fire Giant Strength.

MARISHA: I could cast an Enhance Ability spell.

SAM: He has no abilities now, though.

MARISHA: That's true.

SAM: So I'm going to pour this Potion of Fire Giant Strength into his gullet.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Hope it gives him some sort of strength.

MATT: Go ahead and make an arcana check.

SAM: Okay. 18.

MATT: 18, okay. As you pour the potion into his throat, the somewhat thick red and yellowish compound that drips from it like a thicker molasses finds its way, mingling with the ale currently in his gullet. You help try and massage it down, like feeding a pill to a dog. As you do, you can see the veins around the shoulders instinctually affected by this, as the flesh itself, you know, the cells are still alive. It's just the nervous system and all else that the lights are currently out on. You hope this is enough. And as you hold onto that singular thread of Grog's existence–

LAURA: He's taking a picture

MARISHA: Why is he taking a picture?

SAM: Because it's not good.

TALIESIN: Because he's a terrible person, that's why he's taking a picture.

MARISHA: It's either really good or really bad.

LAURA: I know, yeah, it's either really good or really bad.

TRAVIS: I can't hide.

LAURA: Matthew!

MARISHA: This is bullshit.

MATT: As you're certainly staring at the sword–

TALIESIN: I was going to say something to it.

MATT: What do you say to it?

TALIESIN: If I were you, I'd put it back. Or else it will be the last meal you ever eat, because I will find an abyss so deep and so far you will never taste a drop of blood again. And I'm not touching it. I touched it and put it down and let go and said that to it.

MATT: The shadow begins to bleed from the blade and rise up and it seems almost like an incensed fury from your words. However, you also hear a raging scream bellow from inside the blade. A familiar yell echoing in distant (roars).

TALIESIN: I'll start summoning my own fucking mist, man, I'm not fucking intimidated by this shit.

MATT: Your shadow begins to rise over your back as well. As it begins to coalesce, these two black centers of dark energy facing off in wordless anger and lack of understanding, the arm of Grog's body grabs you by the throat and starts clutching as it sits up and looks you in the face, eyes red with rage, going (growl). Roll a strength check.

LAURA: Oh my god!

SAM: Strength check?! He's got 25 strength now!

TRAVIS: Disadvantage still?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: He's going to crush my neck.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11. He manages to close off the windpipe just for a short moment, but in that time the red fades from his eyes and the first inhale of breath (gasps) comes into Grog's chest, and your vision clears. And the moment of confusion hits you as you look around and notice this tiny gnome in your grip, head beet-red as you notice that your thumbs are pressed into his larynx.

TRAVIS: No, no. No. (clears throat) What'd you do to me?

SAM: (gasps) Nothing.

LAURA: What the fuck is that sword, Grog?

SAM: Gave you some ale.

SAM: What's with you and gnomes today, man?

TRAVIS: I like gnomes, I don't know! What? Why am I down here?

MARISHA: Are we sure it's him? Scanlan? Percy? Percy, are we sure?

SAM: Nope! I'm not sure. I'll do a perception check to see if it's–

MARISHA: Can I also do an insight check? Can I assist him or make an insight as well?

MATT: You can make your own insight check.

SAM: 17.

MARISHA: Sorry. 23.

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: I love a whisper.

LIAM: I don't.

LAURA: How come he's getting a whisper and you're not getting a whisper? Hey, you guys (sobbing) check out those “How Do You Want to do This” hoodies–

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I want to do this with great pain and sadness.

ASHLEY: This is so stressful!

LAURA: Oh my god, you came back and Grog died!

ASHLEY: I want to go back!

MATT: He rolled a 20, then he rolled a one.

TRAVIS: I did my classic ten-minutes-later remembering-the-rules shit.

MATT: That's right, because you got the third point at the end of that battle because you frenzied for that last fight.

MARISHA: Grog! How many fingers am I holding up?

LIAM: Six.

TRAVIS: Nine!

MARISHA: I think it's him. All right.

SAM: Oh my god.

LAURA: Grog, you died!

ASHLEY: You fell over dead!

MARISHA: How many more of us are going to die?!

TRAVIS: No, I didn't. No.

LAURA: Yes. You did.

TRAVIS: What, when?

LAURA: Pike saved you. Pike brought you back.

SAM: Where's your sword, Grog?

TRAVIS: My sword is– where is my sword?

SAM: Yeah, exactly.

ASHLEY: It's not your sword anymore.

TRAVIS: What do you mean?! Wait, wait. Where is my– where's Craven Edge?

MATT: You sit up and glance over, and you see about 15 feet from you, set up against the bottom of a tree, the blade is currently being crouched over by Percy, his fingers tense, his shoulders and back arched and locked, and you see two shadow sources that are almost on their own subtle plane having a staredown.

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: Hey! Hey, Percy! Percy!

TALIESIN: Little busy.

MARISHA: Do you want to explain this, Grog?

LAURA: Can we see what's going on?

MATT: You guys look over and you see this happening, yeah.

TRAVIS: Well, I mean he's obviously messing with other people's property! And I walk over to the sword.

MARISHA: No, no, no!

LAURA: I run over and I block it. I stand next to Percy and I block the sword.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: Yeah, I walk over and I stop Grog.

LIAM: I'm pulling out daggers and standing behind my sister. Grog. Grog, let it go.

TRAVIS: Let what–

LIAM: This has been something on the tip of our tongue for weeks. Let it go. Whatever that thing is, it's fucked. Let it go!

TRAVIS: But it's my sword.

MARISHA: It was never your sword, was it, Grog?

TRAVIS: I mean, Percy gave it to me, but it's mine.

LAURA: Percy gave it to you?

SAM: Yeah. Yeah, he let him have it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we traded. Fair and square.

LIAM: What did you say?

TALIESIN: Little busy.

LIAM: Scanlan, what?

SAM: Grog, listen, when I experienced the sword, it was pretty cool, and it is a powerful, powerful weapon, but after seeing what it's just done to you, I don't think you can have it, man.

TRAVIS: I'm still a bit fuzzy. Like I mean, you know, we fought the sphinx, it got super-gnarly, and then we took a little rest and you– did you see it shrunk?

LAURA: Grog! The sword pulled you into it! You were dead, your soul was with whatever the fuck is in there now.

TRAVIS: Well, how did I get out of there?

LAURA: Pike saved you.

ASHLEY: We brought you back!

SAM: We? It was you, Pike.

TRAVIS: Oh, like just now?

ASHLEY: It was a group effort!

TRAVIS: Why do I taste ale, and whiskey?

ASHLEY: Because she gave you a little to bring you back!

TRAVIS: I mean, I didn't know if I'd thrown up in my mouth, and like swallowed it.

MATT: The shadow has now rescinded into the blade.

TALIESIN: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Yes, Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm debating whether or not to touch the sword. And I'm debating whether or not you should touch the sword.

LAURA: Nobody should touch the sword, Percy.

TALIESIN: We have to move it.

SAM: I've touched it before and it was fine. I can touch it again.

ASHLEY: Well, I could try to–

LAURA: I feel like it's going to try and suck anybody in right now.

MARISHA: Well, what should we do with it? We should get rid of it?

TRAVIS: Look, guys, I can carry it at least.

LAURA: No.

ASHLEY: No! You're not going to touch it again!

TALIESIN: It's a bad deal.

LIAM: Put it in the Bag of Holding and give the Bag of Holding to Pike.

MARISHA: Wait, no, we're not putting that in the Bag of Holding. That sounds like a terrible idea. However, let me read something really fast.

LAURA: Can we talk to it? I mean, can we see what it is?

MATT: I mean, you see a blade before you.

LAURA: The shadow's not there anymore?

MATT: The shadow's pulled back into the blade.

ASHLEY: Percy, what did you get from it?

LAURA: I mean, what did it sound like?

SAM: It sounded evil.

TRAVIS: Well, now, that's really judgmental.

SAM: And also awesomely powerful.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: What were you going to say, Vax?

LIAM: de Rolo knew about this. That's perfectly clear. You knew about this too, Scanlan?

SAM: I didn't know what it was. And I wasn't alone in this; I had asked Pike to weigh in and she was thinking about it. Doing more research.

ASHLEY: That's true.

MARISHA: Pike knew about it as well? Wait, how many people knew about this?

TRAVIS: Yeah! Only four of us. Look, it's been a great ally!

LAURA: Four out of seven!

SAM: Vax, I assume you have secrets you haven't told us.

LAURA: He has a third testicle. It's out. There, I said it!

LIAM: That's a great time for a joke. That's a great time for a joke.

TALIESIN: Best time for a joke.

SAM: The weird part is it's not in his crotch area.

ASHLEY: I could try casting Greater Restoration on the sword.

MARISHA: I might be able to Banish it.

TALIESIN: Can you do that?

TRAVIS: Well, that's a bit strong, don't you think?

SAM: And that's only for a minute.

MARISHA: No, I can do a more permanent version of that. I've never tried it before. And it's a 7th-level spell.

TRAVIS: Look, look! Okay. Look, if you get bucked off a horse, right? You don't kill the horse, you just train it up a bit. Let's just work with the sword.

LAURA: Horses don't try to steal your soul, Grog.

LIAM: Who owned the sword before you had it? Who?

TRAVIS: Ah. Well.

LIAM: Find it on the ground?

LAURA: Oh. It was Lord Briarwood.

LIAM: It's very familiar, that's right. It belonged to the arch-vampire who we fucked up.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Right.

MARISHA: And I hate to be the one to point it out, but I feel like you've been almost a little bit more brutal than you usually are here lately, which is almost impressive.

TALIESIN: Grog, I'm going to make you a deal. We're going to deal with this as a family, and we're going to get you something much nicer.

MARISHA: It just killed you.

TALIESIN: Right away. We're going to replace it with something a little less complicated.

LAURA: Maybe some bone knuckles? I hear those are pretty badass.

TRAVIS: Bone?

LAURA: Giant's bone?

TRAVIS: Titanstone?

MARISHA: Maybe a family heirloom?

TALIESIN: Perhaps it's time to be a better badass.

SAM: Does, DM, does Suggestion last forever or just for a little amount of time?

MATT: Suggestion, I think it lasts for a short time.

MARISHA: I can attempt to Plane Shift this into another dimension.

LAURA: No, how about we just wrap it in fabric. No?

TRAVIS: Well look, hey, look, all right, fine, look, I won't touch it. But can we like at least figure out what it was doing? Lord Briarwood had it, I asked it a few questions, like if it knew Vecna. And we just got to see it level up a little bit.

MARISHA: What all has it told you, Grog?

TRAVIS: It's always hungry, right, so it likes to be, it likes what I do–

ASHLEY: Grog!

TRAVIS: What? What, I'm hungry too!

LIAM: Show of hands. Who here is uncomfortable with that piece of shit?

ASHLEY: I mean, it stabbed me, so yeah, I'm uncomfortable.

TRAVIS: I said I was sorry, I really–

ASHLEY: It's okay. It's not your fault.

LAURA: But I do think that whatever it is might know something.

MARISHA: Well, Grog said he's been talking to it, which makes–

TALIESIN: You don't want to interrogate it, because if we interrogate it we're going to have to make a deal.

LIAM: You have to choose between this group and that sword.

TRAVIS: Oh, well I choose the group, I mean, I voted I was uncomfortable as well.

LIAM: So what are we arguing about?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't just want to destroy it.

MARISHA: It served its purpose. You got its fair use. You got your money's worth, which was free.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I could use it on Kevdak.

TALIESIN: It can use you on Kevdak.

LAURA: Do not use it against Kevdak. You don't want something making your strength unnatural when you fight your new foe.

TRAVIS: Well look, the last I remember was it said it was hungry. If it gets hungry again, I'll just give it something to eat.

MARISHA: Like one of us?

TRAVIS: No, like my thigh or something.

LAURA: You'll chop off your own leg–

TRAVIS: No, I would just stab it.

MARISHA: You want to sacrifice your own leg for a sword?

TRAVIS: Kevdak has the Titanstone Knuckles. It's a Vestige that we're looking for, right? It's going to be a hell of a fight, and this is a hell of a sword.

LAURA: He's got a Vestige. He's still just him.

LIAM: The sword just fucking killed you, you dummy!

MARISHA: And you were far powerful before the sword. You killed Lord Briarwood without the sword.

LAURA: That's right.

MARISHA: The sword didn't make you Grog.

TRAVIS: All right, hold on, Pike. Look. If we're going back to Kevdak. You know I'm not scared of death, right? I would die by a dragon, I would die by a beholder, and I wouldn't care, as long as it was a beautiful death. But I don't want to die from Kevdak. Not him.

ASHLEY: We'll find you a better weapon. I don't want you to die from something that's not worth it.

TRAVIS: All right. Fine. Do what you want with it. I don't need it.

TALIESIN: What do you think we should do with it?

ASHLEY: We'll find you something strong.

TRAVIS: This is an empty cup.

TALIESIN: Oh, we've already poured it into your mouth.

LAURA: No, there's a little left in the cask, here. Here's your cask.

TRAVIS: I throw the cup away and just take the cask.

MARISHA: All right. Should I attempt to banish this thing forever?

SAM: You can banish something forever?

MARISHA: It's called Plane Shift, I can shift it into its own little pocket dimension where it'll stay and nothing else can get to it.

TALIESIN: I think I'm perfectly content with it being someone else's problem.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm staring hard to make sure it's not going to fight this.

MARISHA: So looking at Plane Shift, it says you can use this spell to banish an unwilling creature to another plane. But I can also transport eight willing creatures, so can I hold the sword and attempt to Plane Shift it away?

MATT: I don't see why you would not be able to do that to an object, honestly. Especially based on the power of the spell. Where would you want to banish it to?

MARISHA: Ooh. Ooh! Ooh!

LIAM: Newark.

MARISHA: The pocket dimension of the green-eyed boy. The golden-eyed boy.

MATT: Oh!

LAURA: The Dread Emperor that we already killed.

MARISHA: Yes, it was empty, it was his own dimension and he's dead.

MATT: It was the Dread Emperor.

TALIESIN: Well, let's think about this.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: What else lives there?

MARISHA: Nothing.

LIAM: It was an island with child labor, it's full-circle for Keyleth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to suggest something that's going to sound a little iffy, but I swear to god I'm being clever. Send it somewhere where it will be content. Let's not anger something. Where do we send vampires?

MARISHA: I could easily send it to one of the Nine Hells, where I'm sure someone would be very happy with the new gift they just found.

LAURA: No! Somebody could use it.

MARISHA: Exactly.

TALIESIN: But they would be using it in the Nine Hells. And it's going–

MARISHA: Yes, but you forget that all these planes cross over. We have fought many a demon.

LIAM: I don't want to send it to the Hells.

TRAVIS: Can I make like one little suggestion that doesn't involve it coming back to me? I had a thought that since Lord Briarwood had it before, that every time it killed it might've been sending that life back to Vecna? But I don't have any proof of that, you know, I just remember being in that room with all the bodies, with the little sphere of– the little dough button in the middle of the room.

SAM: We could throw it in the sphere.

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: No. That might go poorly.

TRAVIS: Or really cool?

MARISHA: I mean, does anyone else have any better ideas where to send this thing?

ASHLEY: What would happen if you threw it into the sphere?

SAM: Vecna would get it, right?

ASHLEY: It would get, yeah, that would be bad.

LAURA: How about you throw it in that pocket dimension and then we can always go to that same pocket dimension and get it if we decide it's bad there.

LIAM: Yes.

MARISHA: That's true. I mean, it's its own little pocket. It's at least blocked off. That we know of.

LAURA: Drop it in a thorny patch.

MARISHA: I'm going to go for that Dread Emperor dimension.

LIAM: Percival? Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: You are clever.

TALIESIN: I am.

LIAM: It doesn't mean you're always right.

TALIESIN: I know. I know.

MARISHA: And you do have this terrible habit of liking to push problems on other people.

ASHLEY: You don't think it would work if I tried Greater Restoration?

LAURA: Do you have any more 5th-level?

ASHLEY: I do, I have one more 5th-level.

LAURA: Oh, you do?

ASHLEY: I do.

TALIESIN: I don't think so, but what do I know?

LAURA: Why not try it? Before we send it.

LIAM: We can camp here for the night. We don't have to go anywhere.

TALIESIN: That's fair, yes.

MARISHA: Wait, you want to do Greater Restoration, why?

TALIESIN: On the sword.

TRAVIS: I'm at one hit point.

LAURA: You're at–?

TALIESIN: I'm going to kick myself if I'm right.

ASHLEY: Okay, hold on a minute.

TRAVIS: I could just take a healing potion.

MARISHA: It needs a wielder, Percy.

TALIESIN: Does it? All right, let's– go ahead. I'm curious.

ASHLEY: First, Grog is at one hit point. Okay? So I'm going to use my 6th-level and I'm going to use Heal.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. As Pike turns to you, looks you in the eye, clutching her holy symbol of Sarenrae, there's a smile at the corner of her mouth at noticing that her friend is back. Though as tenuous as this argument has been, and you weren't present for the scare that was there, you can see there is a genuine shake to a lot of their fingertips from what has just transpired. She reaches forward and touches you and you immediately heal 70 hitpoints.

LAURA: Bam! Shebang.

TRAVIS: (sings) I feel amazing.

LAURA: What do you think Greater Restoration will do?

ASHLEY: I don't know. Because I remember it worked one time on– didn't we try that on his–

TALIESIN: In my mind I have a worst-case scenario, but.

LAURA: I'm afraid it will make whatever's in the sword come out.

MARISHA: That's what I'm afraid of as well.

LAURA: But if it comes out then we can banish it or kill it and–

ASHLEY: And then he could keep the sword.

LAURA: It will be just a useless sword at that point.

TRAVIS: Not if I'm wielding it.

SAM: Something tells me you won't be wielding it.

TALIESIN: I'm tempted to ask you to do it just because I would love to be wrong.

LAURA: Fucking try it, Pike!

ASHLEY: Should we try it? Let's try it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, go for it. We've got a backup if there's something wrong.

MATT: So, as Pike turns around from Grog, the softness in her face fades, and the hard jawline of Pike Trickfoot, seafaring gnome cleric, steps across the snow, step by step towards the darkened blade that nearly stole away her childhood friend. Still clutching in one ogre-gauntleted fist the symbol of Sarenrae, your other hand comes out and you can see the shadow begin to spill from the blade as you approach.

MARISHA: Pike, be careful.

SAM: I'm going to inspire her again. I'm going to sing a very romantic ballad.

ASHLEY: Bring it.

SAM: (sings) Oh my little pretty one, my little pretty one, Pike the Gnome-a, oh you make my nipples hum, my nipples hum, oh you make my nipples hum, Pike the Gnome-a.

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d10 inspiration.

LIAM: All sad and tragic and with gravitas.

ASHLEY: A d10?

MATT: A d10 inspiration die.

ASHLEY: That was beautiful, Scanlan.

SAM: I know.

MATT: All right. As you step forward and the shadow begins to emanate from the blade, you focus and concentrate, and as you do, the light of Sarenrae begins to glow from the front of your hand, and as it does, the shadow seems to be cast away, and the blade now stands currently bare before you. You reach out and touch the blade and recite a few words under your breath, and release the energy of the spell into the sword. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Oh, that's good.

ASHLEY: 17.

SAM: You also have inspiration if you need it.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Add your d10 inspiration die to it.

LIAM: Yeah!

ASHLEY: 26. No, wait. Yeah, 26.

MATT: As you reach out and touch the blade, you can feel suddenly the dark, chaotic presence in there. you can see flashes in your mind of an individual, an ancient person. You see flashes in your head of a clamoring for power, a need for attention and wealth. You see a person making a deal with something it didn't understand. You see a flash of a punishment. You see the remnants of their eternal soul bound to a blade. You see themselves cursed with eternal, gluttonous, unending hunger and cast through the ages, the rest forgotten. And you see, just like the singular thread that was holding Grog to his corpse, a dark, dark thread that connects the sword to Grog. And with this spell, you grasp out and clutch it– and tear it in two. Grog, wherever you're standing, it's like you just got punched in the gut. You're thrown off your feet and land in the snow once again, eyes wide open. All of you freak out because it's just like how Grog fell originally, except for he shoots up, heavy breathing, alive. With that, the blade just snarls in your grasp.

ASHLEY: (laughs) Oopsie.

LAURA: What just happened?

MATT: Grog? That fucking blade ate your soul.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: You wonder, this entire time, how you could be so foolish to give into something that this whole time has been using you.

TRAVIS: How could I have been so foolish? This whole time, that fucking blade has been using me!

MARISHA: Pike, let go, let go. Before it–

LAURA: Drop the sword.

ASHLEY: I'm scared to let go of it.

MARISHA: Let go of it!

MATT: (impact) It sits in the snow. Motionless.

LIAM: Keyleth?

MARISHA: It didn't attach itself to you now, did it, or anything?

ASHLEY: No. No.

TRAVIS: Yo, guys, update. That sword is totally evil.

ASHLEY: Grog, what did you think we were telling you?

MARISHA: I reach out and I Plane Shift it to the pocket dimension of the Dread Emperor.

MATT: Okay, you reach out and you pick up the blade, and as you grab it in your hand you can hear the voice, “You! I will–” And before it can finish the phrase, you guys watch as a little thin slit within the plane just shutters open, and you have a quick glance at that distant starscape with various broken, slowly floating islands of earth and rock. You see the partially destroyed bramble forest that you once trekked through, and with that, you throw the blade through the small doorway–

LAURA: Eat it, Craven Edge!

LIAM: (tiny voice) Help meeee.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm not cravin' bacon anymore!

MATT: It slams shut and is gone.

LAURA: Well? Fingers crossed nobody gets it.

TRAVIS: And there was a dagger that came with it.

LAURA, MARISHA and TALIESIN: What?

TRAVIS: (laughs) I'm fucking with you.

ASHLEY: Grog.

MARISHA: I know how that spell works now! That's nice.

LIAM: What do you say we camp here for the night, everybody?

TALIESIN: Let's camp here for the night.

LIAM: Right in the cave.

SAM: Wait, it's not at night, it's the middle of the day.

LAURA: We can just fucking hang out for a day.

SAM: Shouldn't we start walking?

MARISHA and TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: She's out of spells.

LIAM: You got a hard-on for adventure, little man?

SAM: I just think we should make headway if we're going to be traveling all day. Grog, do you even have any weapons anymore?

TRAVIS: I'm super exhausted–

LAURA: Yeah, he's got so many weapons.

SAM: I could lend you my whip if you'd like.

TRAVIS: No, I'm like Northrop Grumman meets Raytheon in this Bag of Holding, we're good.

ASHLEY: Since we got rid of Craven Edge, do you want the Gauntlets of Ogre Power back?

TRAVIS: Oh no, I just gave them to you, though.

ASHLEY: Yeah, but you're the muscle. I take them off and I give them back.

TRAVIS: What about if I trade you, what if I trade you–

ASHLEY: Are we doing a trade?

TRAVIS: I have Boots of Levitation.

ASHLEY: Ooh!

TRAVIS: Or I have black iron plate that while wearing this heavy plate armor the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.

LAURA: Ooh! That's good.

SAM: She already has plate armor.

LAURA: Yeah, but this one gives her fire resistance.

ASHLEY: Does it maybe make me quiet as well?

TRAVIS: I bet if you levitate you'd just be floating above the ground.

LIAM: Levitate would make her quiet, yeah.

LAURA: Does she have to– in the levitation boots, can you move?

MATT: Levitation, someone has to push you along.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, that's fine, I'll take care of that.

MARISHA: Oh my god, we can get like a little kid leash for you.

LAURA: We could tie her onto the broom, we could tie her onto the broom!

ASHLEY: I could be a Pike kite!

MARISHA: It'll be like that scene in Inception.

TRAVIS: Yes! We'll discover electricity with you, you're a great conductor.

ASHLEY: Grog, that would kill me!

TRAVIS: Oh. That's true. Which one you want?

ASHLEY: All right, I'll take Boots of Levitation. And you get these so you're super strong again.

TRAVIS: I'll take my Gauntlets of Ogre Power back, strength back up to 19.

LIAM: It was good times, though, Pike in those gauntlets. That was pretty cool.

ASHLEY: Hey, I felt real cool punching that chicken that one time.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: One day I'll be strong.

SAM: Well, I think you just cured Grog, saved his life, and got rid of a soul-eating sword, so you're pretty strong.

ASHLEY: What did you say?

SAM: You killed the sword and saved Grog's life, so I think you're pretty strong.

ASHLEY: That's true, that's most important.

TRAVIS: Way to go, badass.

ASHLEY: Hey, thanks.

TRAVIS: No problem, man.

ASHLEY: Anytime.

MATT: (laughs) All right. So you guys go ahead and take a–

TRAVIS: Long.

LAURA: We just short-rested, but now we're going to sleep. It's been a traumatic five minutes.

TALIESIN: We were in a time vortex, really it's time to sleep.

MATT: Fair enough. Where're you resting?

LIAM, LAURA, and TRAVIS: In the mouth of the cave.

TALIESIN: No, no, no.

SAM: You guys can sleep wherever you want. I'll be sleeping in my bed.

LAURA: Oh, in the mansion, fuck, we'll sleep in the mansion.

LIAM: Sorry, you know, it's so new, it's hard to remember–

LAURA: –that we have that.

SAM: Yeah. We do have it.

MARISHA: Can I blow my last 5th-level spell to Greater Restoration somebody from their age?

MATT: Sure, yeah.

SAM: Oh, do we know? Are we aware that we went under that effect, I mean we just feel different, or how do–

MATT: No, you guys have– it's one of those things where you felt the impact happen and you saw each other rapidly age for those that were present, and even afterward there's a noticeable effect, so yeah. You would be able to ascertain via those situations, and the time you've had to rest to think over the battle and see that difference. Plus the fact that you watched Vex get cured of that aging effect by the sphinx before you left, that was also the big indicator. So you would be aware.

MARISHA: Who wants to go first?

SAM: You can do multiples?

MARISHA: No, just one tonight. The rest of y'all have to stay old.

TRAVIS: Take ol' wrinkly-nuts over there. (laughs)

LAURA: Triple the wrinkles, triple the nuts.

MARISHA: All right, come here, Vax.

LIAM: Here I come, ol' wrinkly-nuts.

TALIESIN: Can I borrow your broom for a bit?

LAURA: You want to work on it? Or you want to fly around?

TALIESIN: It's early, I might as well.

LAURA: Can I stand next to you while you work on it? Would that bother you?

TALIESIN: Only if you want to double the amount of time it takes me to work on it.

LAURA: Oh, Percy, I just want to see what you're doing.

TALIESIN: All right, it's very boring.

SAM: Wait, are we in the mansion or are we–

MATT: So you guys have all walked into the mansion at this point. Keyleth, you cast Greater Restoration, and you reach out to Vax. And what little bit of crow's-nest wrinkles, crow's feet that have crawled on the side of his face, and a little bit of the grey hairs that began to spray in the side, all revert back, skin tightens, he's back to his normal roguish half-elf average-aged self.

LIAM: I am still older than you.

LAURA: By like two whole minutes.

LIAM: Which means I get to tell you what to do and don't you forget it.

MATT: All right, so all of you guys head into the mansion. Vex, you're helping Percy to the workshop?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Okay. What're you doing?

TALIESIN: Hit dice just restore at the end of the day, correct?

MATT: Half of your spent hit dice is restored.

LAURA: I pop Trinket out, of course, so he can hang out. Shake it out. Run around, get some exercise, I feel like an asshole for keeping you in this thing.

MATT: (bear noises) Goes into the kitchen. All right, so as you guys are preparing to rest for the evening, you head down to the workshop.

TALIESIN: Yeah, just to work on the broom.

MATT: Okay. Are you aiding?

TALIESIN and LAURA: Sure.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with advantage.

TALIESIN: All right. Oh! With advantage. Very nice. It's new now, I have to remember, I got a new number. Natural 20.

MATT: You guys, there are other numbers between these, by the way.

TALIESIN: Are there? Are there? LA-New York-LA-New York, sorry, yeah.

MATT: Don't poke the badger, Percy.

TALIESIN: I gave it to Ashly this week, it was working fine.

MATT: Yeah, no.

TALIESIN: The other Ashly.

MATT: All right, so. You guys work the evening, and though you were uncertain, Vex is actually a very quick learner and is eager to help, and so between bringing tools at your disposal and helping you hold a few places properly during the construction process, you manage to get far more headway than you expected in just an evening's bit of work. You still have probably a couple of days of work before you can actually complete your prototype for this and try it out, but–

TALIESIN: Can I at least have the tether done, or is it still in progress?

MATT: The tether for?

TALIESIN: For a dex save if you fall off.

MATT: Yeah, I'd say you've gotten that enough.

TALIESIN: All right. Can't stabilize yet, but at least there's a– okay.

MATT: Yeah. At least if there's ever a tumble there's a tether piece that would hopefully have a chance of keeping the broom with you, so.

LAURA: Percy? I feel safer already.

TALIESIN: Excellent. Yay to a constructive day. That was– you're quite good at this, we should do this again sometime.

LAURA: I would love that.

TALIESIN: Yes, this was actually agreeable. All right.

TRAVIS: I'm in the training room in my sandpit sleeping bed.

MATT: Which in contemplating over the experiences you've had, you now have access to the full Craven Edge weapon sheet.

TRAVIS: The full one?

ASHLEY: That's a scroll.

MATT: Just so you know what it had done.

LAURA: What it had done to you?

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck you!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Okay.

LAURA: Can I see, can we see it?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Why? Come on.

TALIESIN: I'm so excited.

ASHLEY: All I just saw was “dark aura” in really dark letters.

TRAVIS: No, no, I can make really good origami now. Can I try and take out the flaming warhammer, the Firebrand Warhammer?

MATT: Yeah, you pull it out, take it, swing it around, dust it off a bit.

TRAVIS: Can I get it to light?

MATT: Bursts into flames, and for a second that warmth near your face is like an old friend coming to roost for a bit.

TRAVIS: Can you hear me?

(laughter)

MATT: (fire sounds)

TRAVIS: The silent type. I like it.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. You guys all have your evening's rest. Though it is an early evening, you manage to comfortably, after a number of harrowing experiences, recoup, recover, wake up to a grand chickenful breakfast.

MARISHA: Yeah.

(laughter)

SAM: Chicken and eggs, everyone!

LAURA: Yay!

ASHLEY: Chicken and waffles, perhaps?

SAM: Nope, just eggs.

ASHLEY: Oh, just eggs, okay.

SAM: What's a waffle?

ASHLEY: I don't know, it's like a mishmash of dough, the side–

SAM: Sounds great.

TALIESIN: Can I spend my tinkering check building a waffle iron? I'm just kidding. I'm kind of kidding. I'm going to put that aside for later.

MATT: Okay. Okay.

MARISHA: (laughs) I'm going to put that aside.

SAM: I spent some of the morning just with a little piece of parchment paper and a pen, just writing out something.

MATT: Okay. All right. You guys finish your rest, the servants are eager to send you on your way, should you require anything else. Otherwise, you guys continue your journey?

TALIESIN: Let's head towards the town.

SAM: We walk, is that what we do?

TALIESIN: We walk.

SAM: What is this walking thing? It's terrible.

TALIESIN: It's also very inconspicuous. I know you're not a fan of inconspicuous, but there's nothing you want to be conspicu-ed by, here.

MARISHA: I mean, I could mist, I could Wind Walk us. Do we want to Wind Walk it?

SAM: I mean, will that burn something?

MARISHA: My 6th-level spell.

SAM: Let's just walk, then.

MATT: All right. You guys walking north?

LAURA: I float on my broom.

MATT: Okay. Who's leading?

LAURA: And keep an eye out in front for any sort of problems.

LIAM: Have fun, doofus!

LAURA: Shh! Yes, I'm leading.

TRAVIS: This is a lot to leave off, that's a lot.

MATT: Well, you know.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: To not have. That's a big fucking difference.

LAURA: Would you have kept it if you had known all those other things? Or would you have wanted to use more of it?

TRAVIS: You don't know.

MATT: This is, by the way, the benefits of Identify spells and things like that.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

TRAVIS: Oh, well, if only I'd used my Identify spell.

MATT: But going forward, if you have something you don't know about, you can always go to people with those abilities and be like, could you see what the fuck this does?

LAURA: Do any of our people have Identify?

MARISHA: Negative. It's like a wizard thing.

TRAVIS: I didn't even know people could do that.

MATT: Allura or Gilmore could probably do that for you.

LAURA: Don't act like you know for sure.

(laughter)

LIAM: I know about Gilmore.

ASHLEY: Such a twinsies.

MATT: Aw, so good. All right, so. You guys start heading northward, you're leading then, Vex? Make a survival check. Technically in the forest, since you're moving through.

LIAM: Yeah!

LAURA: 26.

MATT: Not a problem. Utilizing the backtracking of the path you guys took through anyway, is there anything you want to do while you're in the forest? Pushing through? Okay. So you keep moving north–

LAURA: Oh! Did you want to look for that lake, or are you good, Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh, right, remember there was a lake when we were looking for the heart of a nymph?

LAURA: Doesn't it lead into the Fey world? The plane?

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's a portal there, right? And isn't one of the vestiges in the Fey?

LAURA: In the Fey world?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Do we want to do that first, or do we want to deal with–

LAURA: We should probably, but I do want to come back here.

TALIESIN: Oh yes, of course, it'll be right, next thing we do.

TRAVIS: Yeah, only if it's close, otherwise I'm good to go back to Westruun. Only if the lake was close, I don't know where it is.

LIAM: Are you in a hurry to talk to Dad?

LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: We don't have to stop there, that's fine.

LIAM: Maybe later.

MARISHA: I mean, do you need to talk to Dad?

LIAM: No. We do not need to talk to Dad.

LAURA: Let's go to Westruun!

TALIESIN: Westruun it is!

LIAM: Sore spot.

MATT: Continuing pushing forward, I'd like you all to make a stealth check.

(something clatters offscreen)

LAURA: Oh, shit.

(laughter)

SAM: Someone just failed it. Pike!

MATT: With disadvantage, Pike.

ASHLEY: Disadvantage? Okay.

TRAVIS: I'm still there, right? No, we took a long rest!

MATT: Yeah, you're fine, you're no longer exhausted.

TRAVIS: 28.

ASHLEY: Can I put on my Boots of Levitation?

SAM, LIAM, and MATT: Too late.

ASHLEY: I rolled a six.

TRAVIS: Yeah, she's back!

ASHLEY: Pike is back! What would it be without some clanging?

MATT: So as you guys are making your way across the path, keeping as quiet as you can, Pike, you're starting to fall behind a little bit, and in trying to catch up, you get a run on before you start to hear this (hiss) out of the side of the forest, and you see a deep blue scaled-looking lizard entity. You see in the distance a basilisk that's coming over the ridge.

MARISHA: Oh, again.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't have let her get that far back, I would've been hanging back there too.

MATT: Okay, then you're hanging with her and you see this as well, what are you guys doing? It's about, it's about 30, 40 feet off.

TALIESIN: How big is it?

MARISHA: Should we run?

MATT: It's the same size as the other ones, they're about five and a half, six feet from nose to back end.

TRAVIS: Let's run. I pick up Pike, I put her on my shoulder, and we run.

MATT: Okay. First off, Pike, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Aw, because you saw it.

MATT: You glanced over and saw it before you realized.

ASHLEY: I don't think I did, though.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh! I got 19.

MATT: 19, okay. Just the instinctual glance at it, you're like, oh crap, and you feel the impact of its gaze. However, you're a fairly hardy gnome and you resist the creeping stone-based enchantment. As you begin to run forward, Percy pushes behind you as Grog rushes forward, both of you guys recognizing that sound and averting your gaze, pick up Pike and you all begin charging forward. As you do, you can hear the hiss behind you gathered by a second one. (hissing) And the sounds of many feet charging through the snow quickly. I would like you guys all to go ahead and, we'll say for the sake of this, just roll dexterity checks. Or no, athletics. This would be your run speed on this one, sorry.

LAURA: What if I'm on the broom, though?

MATT: If you're on the broom, you don't have to worry about it, you're not exerting energy to maintain a pace. Athletics.

TRAVIS: 24.

ASHLEY: 19.

LIAM: 30.

MARISHA: Ten.

TALIESIN: Ten.

SAM: 11.

MATT: Okay. You guys all manage to maintain a fairly decent pace; these creatures are fairly quick and as they begin to catch up, you begin to use your guidance as a person who knows the forest fairly well to begin ducking in and out of areas, using snowbanks at your disposal. At one point, Grog, you see a partially broken old dying tree that you just go ahead and grab and throw behind you. Make a strength check?

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: 21. With one hand you grab it and, boom, the actual trunk, old and long-rotted, snaps and falls behind you with a large impact. You believe from the sound of it, it at least hit or halted one of them for a short time, it's just a (snarl) sound. And as you guys continue pushing forward towards the northern side of this forest, the sound of the hissing begins to slowly subside as you dodge back and forth, zigzagging across this pathway. Eventually you guys, over about an additional hour and a half of pushing forward, you hear, and have not heard any following hissing sound for a while, and eventually see before you the outside of the Frostweald Forest finally approaching. With that, you guys push through the last elements of this frozen forest, back into the fields heading northward towards Westruun proper. With that, we're going to take a quick break.

(cheering)

MATT: So yeah, we're going to go ahead and take a little trip here to the restroom, we'll see you guys here in a few minutes to continue the next length of this journey.

TRAVIS: We get to play that shit again, right?

LIAM: Why did it get so scary?
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: And welcome back, everybody. So. Returning from– Stop dying. Returning from that harrowing endeavor, you continue your trek northward toward Westruun. It is a few days' travel to make your way, a little over two days, I think, from where the Frostweald is, you can stop and pass by the camp at the lake if you wish to, or continue pressing forward, it's up to you.

MARISHA: Well, we should probably stop by and tell them that their problem has been handled.

TALIESIN: We could stop by later and tell them that both their problems have been handled.

MARISHA: Why can't we stop by now? They're right here, we might as well pop in. We'll forget if we don't do it now. I know us. It'll be three months before we come back, and then we'll be like, by the way–

LAURA: No, we're coming back soon because we're going into the Feywild.

TALIESIN: Well, they know their problem's been handled because we sent all their people back to them.

MARISHA: Let's just talk to them real fast. Okay. We pop in, we're like, hey.

LAURA: I think Keyleth wants a reward.

MATT: You guys stop by the Foramere Basin, where you originally saw the encampment of some of the survivors of the Westruun incursion by the Chroma Conclave. As you approach, some of the guards immediately come up, crossbows up, when they notice who it was before previously, they lower their weapons and one of the guards comes forward, approaches you, saying, “Good to see that you've returned. We've managed to also acquire our recently captured individuals, most at least have come back safely, it's appreciated. If you wish to talk to Cornelius, well, he should be up and about. I'll take you.” Leads you guys into the camp. As you find your way in, folks around you tend to stop again and watch you quietly as you pass, a few with smiles, and you see a few people wave and say, thank you. And you do see a couple of individuals that you did help escape from the orc encampment, they themselves are still on the mend, a lot of them were fairly brutalized when they were there, but the same child that you found in the tent just runs up and gives a big ol' hug to Vex and holds you for a second, then lets go and runs back off to her mother. You're led back to the tent where Cornelius originally met with you guys, but Cornelius is outside of the tent right now, just in the process of cutting firewood that's going to be used for the firepits later on.

LAURA: Where'd he find the wood? I thought there were no trees around.

MATT: You imagine that they don't go to other nearby wooded areas and cut them down?

TRAVIS: Yeah, poke the DM.

(glass shatters offscreen)

LIAM: Oh dear.

MATT: And that's what happens.

(laughter)

MATT: You think that was an accident.

TALIESIN: When you're in 50 episodes, this is the first one.

MARISHA: This is the first one. It's like that scene in the second Matrix.

MATT: Let's not remember the second Matrix. Cornelius is there. What little bit of timber they've managed to scavenge or find from local wooded areas, Cornelius sits there, wipes his brow, his sleeves rolled up. “Oh. Hold on just a second.” He puts his axe down and walks over, wipes his hands. “Well, you're true to your word. And for that I'm real appreciative. You did us a real favor and brought back some good people alive and intact.”

SAM: Did your brother make it back safely?

MATT: “Cyrus did and I certainly had a very stern talking-to to that boy. But I–”

SAM: Don't go too hard on him, he was being held up by a rope and tortured by a bunch of monsters.

LAURA: Pretty traumatizing, I would assume.

MATT: (laughs) “That would be him, wouldn't it? Well, nevertheless, I appreciate it. Looks like through some talks we might be able to bring most of us into Kymal for the time being. It's the town to the west of here. It's small, it's cramped, but we figure at least that's better than being out here in the open. And we have numbers there, so we'll be a little more protected.”

TALIESIN: Well, that's where we'll send word if anything happens in Westruun.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: “Heading to Westruun yourself, now?”

MARISHA: It's next on the list.

LAURA: If all goes well, you may be able– no, I don't know.

TALIESIN: Let's not make promises.

LAURA and MARISHA: Dragons.

LAURA: It may be a while, but we're trying.

MATT: “Well, I wish you all the best of luck. Yeah. Figure if anyone could do it, it'd probably be you folk. Well. I look forward to hearing from your victorious recovery of our homestead, and I'll get the first round when we come back to our town.”

MARISHA: Farewell, Cornelius.

MATT: “Stay safe.” He turns around and grabs his axe again and starts chopping through the wood once more.

LAURA: Was there anything else you wanted to do, Keyleth?

MARISHA: No, I'm good.

LAURA: All right.

SAM: Do we need to check in with Drez? No, we know what he wants.

LIAM: Fuck Drez.

MARISHA: That guy's a weasel.

SAM: We have his Hunk of Quall.

MARISHA: That was a gift, I'm pretty sure. It's a loaner, it's on loan for the foreseeable future until we save the world.

ASHLEY: Mr. Vina. Mr. Drez Vina.

MATT: Drez Vina, who is the assistant to Master Quall. Who is the one that originally hired you. And by the fact that he called a debt on the initial enchanted ruby that you used on your first endeavor, yeah, you get the feeling that whatever this object is that he gave you, it's probably on loan.

ASHLEY: (coughs)

TRAVIS: Pike! Are you all right?

SAM: Heal her!

MATT: So you guys continue forward into Westruun?

SAM: To Westruun. And what is our mission?

LAURA: Okay, what are we, what's our plan here, Grog?

TRAVIS: What time is it?

MATT: You guys have traveled for one day, you've gone into the evening, you can take a rest here or, you know, rest within your mansion on the outskirts of this encampment before it roots up and starts heading back to Kymal relatively soon. You guys then, the next morning, can continue your trek northward, and you can probably get to Westruun by the end of day, if you travel quickly and consistently.

LAURA: What do you think, Grog, what do you want to do? Walk right into town?

TRAVIS: No. No. I like what Percy said, I think there's worth in being clever.

TALIESIN: I would agree.

TRAVIS: I would actually like to maybe run some ideas by you. We don't walk into town, but we have the town walk out to us.

SAM: How do we do that?

TALIESIN: Oh, there's many ways we could do that.

TRAVIS: Well, look, so there are people in there that are innocents, right, we told the farmer we'd get his people back and I really want to see if Wilhand's all right. So listen. How do you feel about sending someone in that would draw out their worst?

TALIESIN: I think we could draw out their worst very easily. Hmm. How committed are your people to trial by combat?

TRAVIS: Oh, it's about all we do.

TALIESIN: What can you imagine would be the most exciting show they could possibly hope for?

LAURA: A rematch, I would think.

TRAVIS: Well, it wasn't really an official fight, it was more of like a one-sided ass-whooping.

LAURA: But they think you're dead.

TRAVIS: Yeah. We're going to get to that later. I was thinking maybe we could set a fire and send someone running in and say there's a roving band of orcs that are challenging the goliaths, and then when they come out and leave we can move into the town and get all the innocents out. And then if we want, we could set a trap, or an ambush, or we could play some mind games, but I want to try and get the town clear first.

SAM: You know, your people might not be the brightest, but they're not going to send everybody out to meet these orcs.

TRAVIS: No no no no. Just a few.

MARISHA: And probably not Kevdak.

TRAVIS: Well, look, if it's not Kevdak, we get a practice round on those that do come out.

MARISHA: Well, here's my question: there's got to be hundreds of people still left in Westruun. It could take hours to evacuate a city of that size.

TRAVIS: Well, so you know how last time when we went over there and Horace was just outside the city walls? I'm pretty sure if we wait for a bit, somebody will come out, we take him, we mess him up real good, maybe take his tongue out, chop off his arms, and then send him back in.

TALIESIN: Some of that is…

TRAVIS: I mean, I'm open to augmenting that plan a little bit.

SAM: I could make you look like an orc or something.

TRAVIS: No, like I said before, if I go in there–

SAM: No no no, just to rough up the guy that we send back in to tell them about the orcs.

TRAVIS: I'll hold him while somebody else can rough him up, but–

TALIESIN: How smart are your people?

TRAVIS: Well, pretty smart, they're all like me.

LAURA: As smart as you?

TRAVIS: Yeah, scholars the lot.

MARISHA: Grog. If someone kills Kevdak, say hypothetically you, who takes control of the Herd after that?

TRAVIS: Well, my math is a little shoddy, but I think that would be me.

MARISHA: Well then, why do we need to evacuate the city if you could theoretically have control over it?

LIAM: If we could figure out where Kevdak is and drop in on that point.

LAURA: Well, he's in the mayor's–

LIAM: Yeah. And handle Kevdak before the rest of the city can descend upon us. It's a gamble, but so is everything we do.

LAURA: Yeah, but if the city, if the rest of them don't see him defeating Kevdak, then it's worthless. They need to watch it happen.

LIAM: Well, how honorable are your people, if you fell Kevdak or whatever the fuck his name is, will the rest stand down?

TRAVIS: Maybe, but– (sighs) So, here it is. My whole life has been wanting to punish or get back at Kevdak. I don't want to do it cheaply, I don't want to do it quickly. I want to do it with my own hands. Now, I'll do it with my family, do it with my buddy Pike, but I want it done right.

TALIESIN: I've got a thought. It's dangerous, but I have a thought. You literally walk, march right to the city gates and demand a challenge.

MARISHA: I have a feeling you're going to be the most attractive bait that we can think of.

TALIESIN: If we put you right in front there, perhaps we let Pike stay with you, I doubt there's any of them who will not want to watch that. And while they're watching, the rest of us do our best to get everybody as safe as possible.

LAURA: But what's to keep Grog safe in the meantime?

TALIESIN: They won't want to sully that fight, no one will want to sully that fight.

TRAVIS: No, I can guarantee you, no one will interfere.

TALIESIN: And if things get bad–

MARISHA: We'll be nearby.

TALIESIN: We'll pull him out.

TRAVIS: I like that.

LAURA: I don't want to abandon Grog to a fight with Kevdak while we're freeing villagers. No offense to them. I want to have Grog's back.

LIAM: I agree with that.

MARISHA: I think we won't need to worry about freeing the villagers if we can defeat Kevdak.

LAURA: What if we stay hidden?

TRAVIS: Oh, wait a minute. Right, so they think I'm dead.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Maybe I let them think I conquered death.

LAURA: Which you kind of did, Grog.

TRAVIS: Maybe we let them think that I'm not the same Grog I was before. Maybe we let them think I've gained abilities.

MARISHA: I'm pretty sure all those things are actually true.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, but I mean like–

SAM: Yeah, yeah, make a show of it a bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah. But they don't have to see where those abilities come from.

MARISHA: Sure.

TRAVIS: All they've got to see is me. There are roofs, right, I mean it's like two- and three-story buildings all in that city.

ASHLEY: It just makes me so nervous.

LAURA: So wait, we stay hidden and you call lightning.

TRAVIS: Yeah. You guys get all up on the roofs while I'm making a scene in the middle and we pull off the greatest stage show there's ever been.

SAM: I love a good stage show.

ASHLEY: This is not a bad idea.

MARISHA: We can make you look as cool as you want. That's undeniable.

TRAVIS: If I do a pelvic thrust, will you do your–

SAM: I will grant you cock lightning.

TRAVIS: Holy shit. “I will grant you cock lightning.”

LIAM: Weirdest production of Grease ever.

TALIESIN: How many objects are you attuned to right now?

TRAVIS: Three.

SAM: If he could unattune to one, we can put him in the Hat of Disguise.

TRAVIS: I don't want it.

TALIESIN: What do you have right now?

TRAVIS: I have the Gauntlets of Ogre Strength.

TALIESIN: That's good.

TRAVIS: I have the flaming–

LAURA: Warhammer?

TRAVIS: Yup.

TALIESIN: That's good.

TRAVIS: And the belt. What's the other? Oh, and my–

LAURA: You gained the ability to grow a beard in the afterlife. It's pretty major.

MATT: Well, you have three of those, so you have to get rid of the necklace.

TRAVIS: Actually, the flaming warhammer's not attuned.

MATT: Oh, that's right. That's true, no, you're good.

TALIESIN: What does the amulet do?

TRAVIS: It gives me plus two to my AC.

MARISHA: Pretty nice.

TALIESIN: That's pretty nice.

SAM: And so the object of this would be to stall, to enthrall, to captivate them as long as you can, keep talking to them, not engage in fights for as long as possible while we–

TRAVIS: Get in place. I mean, I could try and do it while you're getting the hostages out, or we could just take down the snake's head.

TALIESIN: We need his Knuckles.

LAURA: Kill Kevdak.

SAM: Yeah, but is Kevdak going to engage in a fight with a magical Grog? That's not a fair fight, is it?

LAURA: It's a pride issue.

ASHLEY: I think he will.

TRAVIS: I do know how to get his pride in check.

LAURA: Grog, would you engage in a fight with a magical being who wronged you, if you thought you were better than him?

TRAVIS: Why, who said something?

SAM: And when they discover, and they surely will, that you are not magical and that your friends are aiding you, will that bring you great shame?

TRAVIS: No. No, I made a choice. This is my family. My old family left me to die.

MARISHA: Plus, I mean, it's like wearing really cool robes. Right, Scanlan? You know, there's nothing wrong with wanting to look cool.

SAM: I don't know about wanting to look cool, it just comes naturally.

ASHLEY: Let's make sure that it doesn't happen, that they won't know.

LAURA: Nice beret there, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: This is going to end with a fight between the two of you, there's no denying that.

LIAM: Anyway, Kevdak's using a gift of the gods.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: That's right! He's full of shit.

ASHLEY: These are very scary people, you guys. They left him in a very horrible state and I would not like to see that again.

MARISHA: But that was years ago!

TALIESIN: We defeated the people who left me in a horrible state, I think we will have no problem defeating the people who left him.

LIAM: We have a gift of the gods and soon we will have many more.

SAM: So you do intend to engage in a fight. Because otherwise I would say, I can go in, just sort of looking like you, and draw their attention.

TALIESIN: And then what?

SAM: And then bamf outta there.

TALIESIN: But then what?

SAM: Or run away and draw them with me.

TALIESIN: How does that save the city?

SAM: It gets them to follow me.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I mean, and either way, I like that because either way, if only the pawns of the group follow him out? That's fewer goliaths we have to worry about. Best-case scenario, Kevdak, Zanror, and the best of the baddies chase him out, we can get the hostages out, and then set the trap for when they come back.

TALIESIN: It's not just the hostages, though, it's a city under siege. I just don't think it's feasible to empty it.

MARISHA: Right, but you have to remember it's– right, yes, pretty much. What you said. It's a city under siege, under siege, it's meta under siege, under siege from the goliaths and then again from the dragons.

TALIESIN: They're in a place, though, where if we can get rid of the goliaths, at least they could function with the dragons.

LAURA: And if we remove all of the villagers, it'll definitely gain the attention of the dragons.

MARISHA: That's true.

TRAVIS: Will it? I thought they only fly over every few days.

MARISHA: They have wyverns who have been running patrol.

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Not over Westruun.

MARISHA: But we haven't been hanging out over Westruun.

TRAVIS: If there are no wyverns, are you open to the idea of gerbil-ball Scanlan doing a thing?

MARISHA: No, not at all. But that's actually not a bad idea. We're still outside the camp, right? How about this: why don't we hike to the outskirts of Westruun, camp out the rest of the evening, keep an eye out, and just scout for a little bit?

TRAVIS: Yeah, and if we get close, hopefully we can ask somebody that's nice if they've seen any dragons and how long it's been since.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Well, we probably want to set up shop for a while and wait for the dragons to come and leave and then strike, so that we've got some time.

TALIESIN: Very clever.

TRAVIS: That's brilliant.

LIAM: We use fake shithead Grog. Sorry. Fake shitheadier Grog to create a scene and run off and draw away some of the goliaths, probably not Kevdak, and then you go in for the main event with a thinned-out Herd.

TRAVIS: Yep. I like it.

MARISHA: I can be on the roofs nearby along with Vex and Percy doing range.

LAURA: What if we do the same thing that those orcs did? When you go in and cause a distraction and lead them out, we spend the few days that we're waiting for the dragons to build a massive trench, you can use Move Earth, and lead them all out over something and drop a Herd of goliaths.

MARISHA: And I can do the Hallucinatory Terrain thing again. It has been a while.

LAURA: Drop them into a trench, they're stuck in there while he fights Kevdak.

MARISHA: And I do love using that spell.

TRAVIS: I'm game.

ASHLEY: I like this idea.

SAM: It still doesn't solve one question.

TRAVIS: What's that?

SAM: I love you, but can you beat Kevdak without magic and friends?

TRAVIS: I mean, look, we're going to find out one way or the other. I don't know. But look.

LAURA: Can we aid you?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: This isn't like the Crucible.

TRAVIS: No, look, he's wearing weapons given by a god. I don't care if it's a totally fair fight, I just don't want to dispatch him cheaply.

SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: We can do this. We've got lightning.

LIAM: That's very intelligent of you, Grog.

SAM: That means good.

LAURA: Smart.

TRAVIS: Oh. Thank you.

TALIESIN: Let's rest up and wait for the dragons.

MARISHA: All right, so we're going to hike to the outskirts of Westruun.

MATT: Okay. You guys, during this journey, find your way northward. Are you skirting around the west side like you did when you first arrived?

LAURA: Sure?

MATT: All right.

LAURA: We're keeping a good distance, as we get closer, so it lasts, I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

TRAVIS: We have that really nice high grass, right?

MATT: It was like waist-high or so.

TRAVIS: Not like cornstalk high.

MATT: There were areas where there was, like during the thick farmland, there are areas where they have high-stalk.

TRAVIS: I'd like to stay there, I'd like to stay in those areas.

MATT: Okay, so you'll be pretty much dodging from farmland to farmland, on the outside. I need you all to roll stealth checks, if you could?

LAURA: Add ten because I cast Pass Without a Trace.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use, oh no. Because that won't be enough time.

SAM: Come on, Pikey.

TRAVIS: That's good.

LAURA: That's really good. Plus ten.

ASHLEY: Plus ten?

LAURA: Yeah, because I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

TRAVIS: 19. Oh. 29.

ASHLEY: 24.

LAURA: 33.

LIAM: 30.

MARISHA: 32.

TALIESIN: 23.

SAM: 20.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: We're quiet.

TRAVIS: He rolled anyway.

MATT: All right, as you guys leap into the high grass, moving around the outside of Westruun, eyes peeled, as the sun sets and the night kicks in, you try your best to watch for any patrols that are keeping an eye. Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: 13.

SAM: 16.

MARISHA: 19.

TALIESIN: 20.

LIAM: 22.

LAURA: 32.

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: All right. The three of you guys glance over and you do see there is a patrol of three individuals, one of which appears to be goliath in nature, the other two humanoid of some degree. In the distance, it's hard to see this far away. And they're patrolling the same area where you guys came through before. It appears like the patrol has increased, like there's a mildly heightened state of awareness that something bad went down recently. However, you stay far enough away and out of sight, they do not catch visual on you and eventually you get enough distance northward where you feel like they haven't really noticed.

TRAVIS: Did we pass the area that we were at before, where the farmer, Frederick?

MATT: Yeah, you passed that area, yeah.

TRAVIS: Did we see him?

MATT: You did not see him, no.

LAURA: Was his name Frederick? No, it was with an 'r'.

SAM: Can we go to that place?

TRAVIS: Reggie. Reginald, sorry.

SAM: Can we sneak there, can Vax sneak there? What was the man's name who we killed?

LAURA: Oh, that you killed?

TRAVIS: Horace.

SAM: No no no, the goliath.

TRAVIS: Horace.

SAM: Vax, can you go get Horace's head?

TALIESIN: Okay, that's a good idea.

LIAM: Yeah, I can get that.

TALIESIN: I take that back, that's a great idea.

LIAM: I don't know why, but I can get that.

MATT: So you're heading forward to do that?

LAURA: I rolled a better stealth than him, though.

MATT: Make a new stealth check. As you guys hold back and you–

LAURA: Oh, that's so much better! No, it's good.

LIAM: 39.

MATT: 39, okay. So as you guys wait in the back, staying low to the grass, you watch as Vax dives into the field and vanishes. You, darting in a forward way, find your way to the outside of the initial crop-grid. There does not appear to be any guards that are watching this property. You recall the various avenues you guys utilized in systematically making your way from path to path. It takes you a few minutes, but you manage to find an area that looks familiar enough where you find your way into the center of one of the crop lanes where the corpse of Horace recently was. Roll a perception check.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27. You get there and you glance about. But the body's gone.

LIAM: Fuck.

MATT: Body's not there, it's taken. You start following the trail, you see where maybe it was dragged off. Make a survival roll.

LIAM: Survival roll? Well, I'm going to use Luck, because I slept. Yeah. 18.

MATT: 18, okay, so you find signs of his body being dragged and you start trying to find the direction it was taken. You dart along, once again keeping within the crops as best you can to stay out of sight. You make your way out of the northern side of it before the trail disappears. You do not know where the body was taken, other than north and outward. You glance over and all you see is the original farmhouse where Reginald was living, there's the crops out there, there's the big scarecrow that was in the center. There wasn't a scarecrow before. You look over real close and you see, strung up across a haphazard wooden spike, arms out, is the currently being pecked apart body of Reginald, who apparently suffered the brunt of the discovery of Horace's corpse in the time that has transpired since you last left Westruun.

LIAM: Do I sense anything around?

MATT: At the moment? No. The patrol's probably a good ten minutes before it's seeming, because it's headed in the direction where you are but you don't know, probably take ten or 15 minutes before they reach where you are.

LIAM: I'm going to stealth up to the body. Cut him down.

MATT: Okay. Cut the ropes off, he slumps down.

LIAM: I shoulder him back to the group.

MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check with disadvantage.

LIAM: 20.

LAURA: 30.

LIAM: 25. 35.

MATT: Okay. Though he wasn't a very heavy individual, and especially now that he's been out to dry for at least a couple days, most of the bloat has worn off and the– not going into graphic detail, elements of the corpse have been left behind. You bring most of him with you through the grass over to the rest of the group. You guys watch as Vax pulls his way up out of the grass, carrying over his shoulder the lifeless body of Reginald.

LIAM: Let's all talk about repercussions. And I lay him out.

TALIESIN: Well, they know we're here now.

TRAVIS: Do they?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: I think they thought it was him.

LIAM: They did not think the farmer killed Horace.

TRAVIS: We should've sent him off to the camp.

TALIESIN: They know we're here now because now his body's missing.

SAM: Also, I assume they tortured him before they killed him.

TALIESIN: I don't know if they're that clever.

SAM: Can you talk to the dead?

LIAM: These people were in a shit situation, while I don't blame us entirely for this because of where they live now, we must not do anything we're doing lightly. There are many lives at stake, not just Reginald's. Let's just not flit about, here, let's take this seriously, please.

TALIESIN: Should've left him up there.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: Should've cut him down tomorrow. One more day up there would have made no difference to him, and it's going to make a difference to us because we have to move tonight now.

MARISHA: Maybe it's a matter of respect, Percy.

TALIESIN: Respect him by freeing his daughter.

TRAVIS: I agree.

LAURA and TALIESIN: They know we're here.

LAURA: They're going to see he's missing.

MARISHA: I think they already knew we were here.

TALIESIN: I don't think they did.

TRAVIS: I don't think they did either.

LIAM: Scanlan, can you make a fake stupid body, can you make a scarecrow?

SAM: Not really. Not really.

LIAM: Can any of us?

LAURA: I can fashion something.

TALIESIN: No, tonight's fine. There's nothing wrong with tonight. I just figure, if we do it, and we should do it, and obviously this is nothing if not a sign that we should've done it sooner.

SAM: Why don't we just burn the whole field? They won't know if there's a body in there or not.

TALIESIN: That was our reasoning last time, no, we do this, I think we do this tonight.

MARISHA: We do this tonight?

ASHLEY: I could cast Speak with Dead and we could ask him some questions.

SAM: We could.

ASHLEY: We could ask him up to five questions.

SAM: Let's do it.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: So you guys quietly press down in a small area of grass to give you enough of a space for you to go ahead and perform this ritual. As you lay the body down, you look up to the sky and where some of the cloud cover that is slowly drawing over the area, there's a little gap in the clouds, and as you look up to the now-visible stars, you whisper Sarenrae's name, look down at the body, touch it with your hand, and the still corpse, the chest begins to rise and fall with an unnatural breath for the time being. The eyes begin to twitch and move around. No physical movement beyond that, but the mouth slowly draws open and you hear, while the lips do not move, you hear a voice emanate through like an exhale. “You returned.”

LAURA: Reginald. We're so sorry.

MATT: “I knew what I was getting into. Do not fret or blame.”

LAURA: We will rescue your daughter.

TRAVIS: Five questions. Vax. Make it count.

TALIESIN: Do they know we're coming?

LIAM: Me?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: I think we can all ask.

LIAM: Reginald, how much do your murderers know? About us?

MATT: “I told them it was me. They should not and could not know your intent to return.”

SAM: Can he describe the one who did it?

LIAM: Go ahead, Scanlan.

SAM: Hi. Sorry. The ones who did you in. Other than large and pale, were there any distinguishing marks or names thrown about?

MATT: “They brought me to one of their leaders. Half-tattooed face and brow and rags. His jaw, once broken, pushes to one side. I know not the name.”

TRAVIS: Do I understand that description?

MATT: You recall the tattoo, and you recall the moment the jaw was broken.

TRAVIS: I was wondering.

MATT: This was Zanror.

SAM: This was who?

TRAVIS: Kevdak's son.

LIAM: He broke it. Grog broke it.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TALIESIN: What are the things that we face inside the city? What should we fear inside the city?

MATT: “Fear those that are fueled by rage, skilled with weapons, and those that call the elements their own. And the dragon does come.”

TRAVIS: Does come. One more question, can we ask if he's seen the dragon or how long it's been?

SAM: Go ahead.

TRAVIS: We thank you for your time. If we may, how long has it been since the dragon was last here?

MATT: “Two days.”

LAURA: It's coming tomorrow.

TRAVIS: Two days, it's coming back. Okay.

LAURA: That means tomorrow it's coming back.

SAM: We can wait another day. How many more questions?

LAURA: Is that it, or one more?

SAM: No, we get five.

TALIESIN: We have one more if we want it.

SAM: What would you like us to tell your daughter?

MATT: “Tell her that my life was given so she could live hers. And my memory lives in her eyes.” And with that, the head just lolls back a little bit, the jaw hangs open, the last of the breath in the chest (exhales) and the magic fades.

TALIESIN: Vax. We have to put it back.

LIAM: Yes.

MARISHA: They don't know we're here. It could be anyone who could've cut him down. Why would they suspect us? I would suspect the village people first.

TRAVIS: I would too, and I'm the smartest of them all.

LAURA: Which is actually worse. We need to put something back up. I don't want anyone else to get hurt.

TALIESIN: He's going to save his daughter one last time, we're going to put him back up for one day. We're going to wait for the dragon to pass, and then he will be buried on his land properly with stone and dirt.

LIAM: Yes. I'll take him. Yes.

TALIESIN: Thank you. And thank you for bringing him. This was helpful.

ASHLEY: Can we give him a proper burial?

TRAVIS: No, we're going to put him back up.

ASHLEY: We're going to put him back up, that's what you. Sorry.

MATT: Vax, are you taking the corpse back? Stealth check with disadvantage.

LIAM: Disadvantage.

MATT: Yeah, carrying him along, man.

LIAM: Oh, it's all right, though, 35.

TALIESIN: Jesus Christ.

MATT: Rogues. Coming back, as you approach the outside you can see now the patrol has skirted by and you have to wait patiently, but not wait too long because you know you have about a 30-second window before they will come into sight of this farmstead. Using that, you dart forward, take the body, thrust it up, trying to catch– I want you to go ahead and make a dexterity check to see how fast you can utilize what rope is at your disposal.

LIAM: Just straight dexterity? 17.

MATT: 17. With that, you throw the body up, look over your shoulder, grab out, pull out bits of twine you have, a piece of rope or a piece of your shirt that you (tearing noise) tear off to the side, and fashion a quick knot over one arm and the other, you look over your shoulder again, you can see the shadow of them beginning to just turn around the side, you get the other arm up, just manage to slump it over the wood. You know there isn't any more time, and with that you duck back underneath the grass and vanish. He's haphazardly up and one arm is not actually tied, it's just kind of laid over it, but he's currently back on the wooden stake, across.

LIAM: Better than what it was.

MATT: As you dart back and slowly return to your group, glancing over in that direction, the patrol doesn't seem to take notice and continues walking past.

TRAVIS: So am I the only one that, while we wait, is itching for a fight?

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, look, it's just who I am.

SAM: Well listen, if you want a fight, we could still use one of their heads. We could find one of those patrolmen walking around, grab him, take his head.

TALIESIN and TRAVIS: Too soon.

MARISHA: Did we not just learn anything?

LIAM: We're going to be fighting soon enough. I think everyone should hide inside your love shack and my sister and I should wait here in the grass and watch and wait. And when the dragon comes, we alert you all.

TALIESIN: We wait for a dragon pass. The day after the dragon passes, we strike.

LAURA: I agree.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: Let's go.

MATT: You guys, most of you, other than the twins, head into the magnificent mansion. An evening that is restful by definition but still wracked with tension and anxiety. You guys watch throughout the night, relatively uneventful, though a cool evening. Without building a fire, you both do have to keep bundled up against the elements. It's not cold enough to the point where it's going to be impactful, but it is chilly.

LIAM: I fart a lot.

MATT: The farting does keep you warm, Vax.

TALIESIN: I want to tinker for the evening as well.

MATT: Make another tinker check.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: 21. Okay. You made headway. You've constructed a portion of the seat and the apparatus that connects it to the broom without interfering with the enchantment. Right now it's testing that and then getting the stirrups and making sure that it's functional and not going to get her killed.

TALIESIN: Whatever night we have time, I want to keep poking at that.

MARISHA: Can I also spend some time practicing a Protection from Energy potion?

MATT: Want to go ahead and utilize the delightfully presented brewing vicinity in the–

MARISHA: I do.

MATT: All right, sure.

MARISHA: Not enough to where I can't, you know, sleep, but just, you know.

TALIESIN: I'm going to lend her my resist lightning ring so that she can study it and hopefully come up with a resist energy potion.

MATT: Okay. I'll say, what level is that?

MARISHA: Protection from Energy is a 3rd-level spell.

(musical tone)

MATT: I don't know what that was.

TALIESIN: Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone. Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone.

MATT: Now reaching housewares, spell scrolls.

LIAM: Kevdak, you are wanted at the front gates.

MATT: Third, that would be an uncommon spell scroll, that would put it, I'd say that'd put it about– how many gold pieces? I'd say you begin the process of brewing one.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: It'll take you a little while to get that done.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: A few days, at the very least. All right, so.

SAM: Grog. Just before tomorrow and stuff, Kevdak.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: His son is–

TRAVIS: Zanror.

SAM: Zanror.

TRAVIS: It's spelled– it's spelled like this. And then like it sounds.

SAM: Sure, sure. Standard spelling. What about anyone else I need to know about? Who you were familiar with or had a relationship with?

TRAVIS: Nah. Not any longer.

SAM: All right, so, we're still resting, right?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: So I'm going to knock on Pike's door. (knocking sound)

ASHLEY: I don't answer. No, I'm just kidding.

SAM: (whispers) I can still get in.

ASHLEY: Hi, Scanlan.

SAM: Hello. Did you get your robe and everything and your slippers?

ASHLEY: Oh, yes, slippers and everything.

SAM: The monogram?

ASHLEY: Yes, it's great, thank you so much. P.T.

SAM: And the scented candles?

ASHLEY: Yes, it smells so good in here. Thank you.

SAM: Great, great. If you need anything, there's two bells next to your bed, there's one to call servants and there's one for me.

ASHLEY: Oh, thank you, Scanlan.

SAM: The purple one is mine.

MARISHA: Percy and I strategize.

TALIESIN: We're doing strategies.

SAM: Great. Listen, there's been a lot of death recently and, well, just, I might die and stuff so, ah. Just don't read this until I do.

LIAM: Can I read it?

LAURA: Don't!

ASHLEY: What is this?

LAURA: Pass it over.

LIAM: Do you want to go steady? If yes, check this box.

ASHLEY: “Do not open” and in parentheses “(until I'm dead).”

SAM: That's all.

ASHLEY: Well, hopefully I never have to open this.

SAM: I hope so, too. That's all. Have a good night.

ASHLEY: Bye, Scanlan.

SAM: Bye.

LIAM: (whispers) Secrets.

ASHLEY: I close the door, I open it, and I read it.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you!

TRAVIS: Nobody look, nobody look. Don't you look! Don't you look. Don't you look.

LAURA: She's full-on reading it!

SAM: You know what? I love her anyway.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: This is a bit of tome, so I think I should wait to read this, but a part of me– Oh.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: You clever fucker. Good god.

ASHLEY: Oh, man. (gasps)

LAURA: Oh, I want to know what it says so fucking bad!

TRAVIS: We got to wait for her to finish, because the night is young.

SAM: It's all dick pics.

(laughter)

LAURA: The cube. Over and over and over again.

MATT: In the meantime, while you're reading that, you guys are doing what?

TALIESIN: We were strategizing. We were just, we're figuring out some strategy for how to make this work.

MATT: Okay, fair enough.

LIAM: Dick pics hand-drawn by quill.

TALIESIN: By candlelight.

MATT: As the evening progresses, you guys rest, preparing yourselves for the next day. You guys–

LAURA: We're still outside.

MATT: You guys are woken up right as the sun begins to rise by the distant sound of (roar, sweeping wings).

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck.

MATT: You shake Vax awake and you guys look up from the grass and you can see, coming down from the very very top of Gatshadow, you see the wings unfurled and with each swoosh down, the gargantuan black dragon streaks down, dive bombs just past the Bramblewood, and scoots over the entire city of Westruun, making its presence known. As it just roars out (roar, sweeping wings), circling over the city twice, three times, as you see lights going on in the city. As it goes over three times, seemingly content that it's made its presence known and asserted its vocal dominance over the vicinity by instilling some early-morning fear in the denizens of this town, the dragon then lands a little bit northwest of the city itself. It's hard to make out exactly what's happening at this distance, but you see it, at its size, circle around an area, scrape into the dirt a bit, take a moment, makes a couple of grumbled (snarls). Takes one of its claws and scoops up a large cart that has apparently a few sacks inside of it. And its wings (sweeping wings). It begins taking up in the air again and you can see now there are three goliaths that are walking away from the point. As the dragon turns and scoops one up in its other claw. And the two others turn around and watch it as it takes off towards the top of the mountain, unable to do anything.

LAURA: That's one less fuck we have to worry about.

MATT: Up onto Gatshadow.

TALIESIN: So we're watching the other two head back towards the–

MATT: Nobody sees this except for the twins.

TRAVIS: No windows? Okay.

MATT: No, you guys are in another plane. You look out the window and it's just like this purple expanse.

LIAM: It seems like a slim thread of hope, but perhaps the underlings are not entirely satisfied with this arrangement? Just scooped one up.

LAURA: It's possible. I have a feeling they're having a hard time finding any sort of hoard to offer after this many days.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Fuck.

LIAM: It's a long shot, but you told me about those giants.

LAURA: Yes?

LIAM: When you were with Zahra, and they turned. We shouldn't rely on it.

LAURA: It's possible. If Grog can take control of the Herd, they may be able to fight with us. But I wouldn't trust them.

LIAM: No.

LAURA: We need to tell the others.

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: You guys find your way back to the door, entering the mansion. Servants have already, at the sound of you entering, begin to appear out of their spectral, ethereal states, bowing to you, offering to take your coat.

LIAM: Chicken, please.

MATT: “Right away, sir.” And they drift off to prepare your bountiful breakfast. Eventually you go ahead and begin to muster the rest of your party down towards the breakfast area, and the rest of you come to consciousness and find your way to where the food is being served and Vex and Vax both wait, rather stone-faced, and prepared to speak.

LAURA: Well. Dragon came. Not happy. You'll be glad to know, however, that it took one of your Herd away with it.

TALIESIN: I imagine the offering was a little light.

LAURA: Yes, that's what I think as well.

TRAVIS: From the three that were walking around?

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: What did the other two do?

LAURA: Not much. What are you going to do when a dragon comes and takes someone away? Stand there and watch, really.

LIAM: Your buddy Horace made it sound like it was easy street, but I don't know if that's entirely accurate.

TRAVIS: We can use that.

LAURA: They may not be very happy with the dragon right now. They may not care at all.

TALIESIN: They may not be very happy with leadership that leaves them in a place where they're being taken advantage of. That's very clever. Might be time to move on.

SAM: Move on? Move in?

TALIESIN: For them to leave.

SAM: Oh, for them to move on.

TALIESIN: This is not a good deal for them anymore.

LAURA: So we start today, yes?

TALIESIN: I think it starts today.

MARISHA: I think it starts right now.

SAM: Want to go in?

TRAVIS: Well, I haven't had my morning shit yet, but as soon as I do–

LAURA: While Grog shits, I'm just going to take a little nap, while he's shitting, it takes a while usually, right?

MARISHA: Sure, yeah, yeah.

LIAM: Same, same.

TALIESIN: He'll play Candy Crush.

LAURA: Something to recover a little bit of time.

SAM: Want me to guard the door?

TRAVIS: I don't think I need it this time.

(laughter)

LAURA: I'll be right back.

TRAVIS: What, you really got to go?

LAURA: Oh no. Blocked.

SAM: She's going to go take a shit.

LAURA: Don't say that!

LIAM: Laura doesn't shit!

SAM: No, she doesn't.

TRAVIS: All right. Yeah, then we do it. And we do it the way we said. Right?

SAM: You want me to go in, draw out as many as I can, but wait, no, first we have to prepare a trap, don't we? Isn't there a trap to be prepared?

MARISHA: Yes, I can dig a trench pretty quickly, honestly, if we want to go the trench route? Is that we were thinking?

TRAVIS: Now here's the thing. Sorry.

SAM: You need to be inside the city gates as well.

TRAVIS: Well, hold on, what were you going to say?

ASHLEY: No, I, go.

TRAVIS: So if we try and build that trench outside, right, we risk being seen and then pop goes the weasel. If you go in–

SAM: While I'm in, you can build the trench.

TRAVIS: Well, what, can you go in looking like me, or can you go in looking like me on fire?

SAM: Go in and what?

TRAVIS: Can you conjure just me, or could you be me as a walking flame?

SAM: Hmm, that would be harder. Yeah, that would be harder to do, to pull off, you're big. You're pretty big.

TRAVIS: Oh I know, this is like a one-time thing for me, so I figured I'd just do it rockstar. I just want to see what it looks like.

SAM: If someone else set me on literal fire, I could, but I wouldn't–

TRAVIS: We'll stand down from that idea, it was just a thought, no problem.

TALIESIN: There's no bad idea when we're workshopping.

SAM: Spitballing, spitballing.

TRAVIS: If we want to do the trench, we have to wait for nightfall.

SAM: I was going to make myself look like you, but a dead version of you. A zombified Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm all right with that. Can I hear your best undead Grog?

SAM: (Grog voice) Right. So. Right so I'm. Ugh, I'm so dead.

LIAM: Maybe you don't say anything.

(laughter)

SAM: No, no, I just have to warm up, ah, mimimimi, right, right, rrrr. Cor, all right then, I've been dead for about five, six years.

TRAVIS: It's amazing, it's like a verbal mirror. So, if we do the trench, though, we have to– Percy–

MARISHA: I could theoretically dig the trench possibly without anybody noticing, like tunnel underground and just tunnel it out and maybe even, you know. Leave like a thin layer of dirt, possibly? I dunno. Maybe.

LIAM: Like Dig Dug.

MARISHA: Like Dig Dug. Exactly the same thing.

SAM: Wait, can't you just shape earth without affecting the surface of it, I mean, can't you just shape the underneath of it?

MARISHA: That's what I'm saying.

SAM: No one will even see it being moved.

MARISHA: And I could possibly maybe carve it thin enough to where when they run over it, it'll collapse.

TRAVIS: Percy, what was your idea?

TALIESIN: And mix a little black powder into the dirt.

MARISHA: Well, I was also hoping, oh, and explode it as they run by–

TALIESIN: Hit it with lightning and it'll go up.

MARISHA: Also, if we could maybe have something fancy at the bottom of it to, you know. Finish them off.

TALIESIN: Do we have something fancy to put at the bottom?

SAM: We have a bear.

TRAVIS: If we do the ditch for the people that're coming out of the city, we waste it if it's not Zanror and Kevdak. If we go in–

LAURA: At least it gets them out of commission.

MARISHA: Yeah, I thought the trench was to thin the herd.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Literally.

LAURA: Good. I like it.

SAM: So, wait, is there a gate to the city?

MATT: There are multiple entrances to the city. The few that you've seen are guarded with outward-facing defensive spikes and pikes that are set up to prevent any sort of like cavalry entry or just as a warning.

LIAM: I have a question.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: For Grog.

(crash in the background)

SAM: (laughs) What the hell's going on there tonight?

LIAM: We fought your father and he was dead. What's the last thing the Herd has heard of your father?

TRAVIS: I don't know. Last thing I remember, I was looking up at my father. And the rest of my Herd. He made no move to save me.

LIAM: Well. I don't know how he got there, but we saved you from your father and the dead guy deep underground, so they lost him at some point. What if instead of Grog, you appeared as Grog's dad?

SAM: I don't know what Grog's dad looks like.

LIAM: Yes you do, you fought him. He was a rotting corpse in front of you trying to kill you.

TRAVIS: Way back in the beginning.

SAM: Of course. How could I forget?

(laughter)

LIAM: Make yourself look like that, I'm not exactly sure what that would do.

TALIESIN and LIAM: It could be interesting.

MARISHA: I mean, it could also further instill Grog being powerful and undead.

TALIESIN: Yes, that's actually even better.

LAURA: If he brought his father back to fight underneath him.

MARISHA: With him, right, like he's a necromancer.

LIAM: And Kevdak would think that Grog's father was serving him.

MARISHA: Yes.

LIAM: And he wouldn't feel pissy if he saw one Grog do a magic trick and then the other Grog sprang up and said, “Fight me instead.” It would seem more real.

SAM: What was your dad's name?

LIAM: Larry?

TALIESIN: Curly.

MARISHA: Moe.

MATT: Do you remember? It was Stonejaw. So Stonejaw Strongjaw.

(laughter)

LIAM: Wow.

SAM: That's a terrible name!

TALIESIN: That's embarrassing.

LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: That's like George Foreman IV.

LAURA: He had an intelligence of four.

MATT: I know, yeah.

TRAVIS: It's a repressed memory, all right?

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: He comes up never.

LIAM: This is George Foreman.

LIAM and MARISHA: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.

MATT: Other brother Darryl.

TALIESIN: All right. So I say you, your dad, and maybe Pike walk up to the front door and then we get ready to hit them with the doozy once things start.

MARISHA: All right, give me a little bit of time to dig a ditch.

TALIESIN: No Pike?

TRAVIS: No. If I walk in, I want to walk in on my own.

LAURA: So this is only your fake father walking up at this point.

TRAVIS: As the distraction, right?

LAURA: Yes.

LAURA: Done.

TALIESIN: You're going to lure them out and we're going to hit them when they come out.

SAM: Okay, but wait. I've got to bring them out of a specific gate where there's going to be a trap and if you go in and rescue any other civilians, you have to bring them out through a different gate that doesn't have a trap at it.

MARISHA: We're not going to worry about that.

TALIESIN: We're not going to evacuate several thousand people, it's just not going to happen.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: We're going to kill Kevdak. He's going to kill Kevdak.

SAM: All right. I'm ready to do this except for a few holes in our plan.

TRAVIS: Yeah, go ahead.

SAM: I don't run very fast.

(laughter)

SAM: Maybe if I Polymorph as a goliath, I would have their speed, right?

ASHLEY: What if you borrow my boots that levitate? Then you can–

SAM: I can't move myself, though, I couldn't just, I would be the Dread Pirate Roberts.

MATT: There will be no survivors.

ASHLEY: All right, all right, bad idea.

SAM: But if I am Polymorphed as a goliath, would I gain their– all their abilities and–

MATT: Their movement speed, yes.

SAM: Intelligence?

MATT: Yeah. It's everything–

TALIESIN: So why not just look like them and if you need to you can make a bubble?

LIAM: You know what would make you move pretty fast is a lady rogue with a flying broom.

LAURA: That's true, I could be hiding behind you and drag you.

TALIESIN: Could have a rope tied to him.

MATT: However, Polymorph is any beast form, if I recall.

SAM: It can't be a man? He's not a beast, that guy?

MATT: A “beast.” Yeah, this, you'd be looking at more of an illusion-based spell like Alter Self.

SAM: Oh, well I don't have that. Oh, I have the hat, but it doesn't make me grow, does it?

MATT: No, you'd be a very, very tiny goliath.

LIAM: Maybe they'd think it was perspective fuckery like in the Lord of the Rings movies.

SAM: Well, backup plan, I can go in as dead Reginald.

LIAM: His dad is much better.

SAM: They killed him, they just killed him, Kevdak's son killed him, Kevdak's son knows who he is.

MARISHA: No. They don't care.

SAM: Sure he does, they just killed him two days ago.

TALIESIN: Can you remember who you killed two days ago?

SAM: I can, I remember all of them because I barely kill anybody.

TALIESIN: Oh, well, that's fair. I don't think they care who he is.

TRAVIS: Right.

TALIESIN: I think you showing up at the front doors is the best option at this point.

MARISHA: Scanlan, can you do it with an illusion instead of an actual, physical person? Just an illusion?

SAM: My illusions are small in size. I mean, I could just go in as hey, I'm Mr. Scanlan, come chase after me.

TRAVIS: This is your trick. You pick.

LAURA: You could be a fucking triceratops again, for all–

SAM: Are they going to chase after a triceratops, though?

MARISHA: It could make theoretical sense if you're still undead Stonejaw, because, you know, decomposition I'm sure shrinks you a little bit.

ASHLEY: What's something that they would chase after?

LIAM: Grog.

TRAVIS: Anything that moves.

MARISHA: While you guys figure it out, I'm going to start digging a trench.

TALIESIN: I'll help. I'm going to get some–

MARISHA: No no no, I'm good. I'm good. You stay. I don't want to blow our cover, I'm going to do this all underground.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: So outside of the city I'm going to start digging underground and I'm going to start digging a trench.

MATT: All right. So you're using Move Earth?

MARISHA: I'm moving earth, I'm going to go underground. And it lasts up to two hours.

MATT: You're going underground to do it?

MARISHA: I want to go underground and tunnel towards–

MATT: Okay, I see, and then create like the trench tunnel underneath, okay.

MARISHA: And do– and I want to make it really thin to where there's a nice thin layer of earth, and then I want to make it really deep.

MATT: Okay, Move Earth is a concentration up to two hours.

MARISHA: Uh-huh, and I can concentrate on a 40-square-foot for ten minutes. And each ten minutes I can change it.

MATT: If you're doing a 40-foot square it could be like 20 feet lower for every 40-foot square you can do, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. Yeah. So real deep.

MATT: Okay. So we'll say over the two-hour period you could create, for a 40-foot square, like a hundred feet deep, 120 feet deep–

MARISHA: I want to make sure it's wide enough to cover the whole entrance as well.

MATT: The whole entrance? Okay. So you dig underneath. Stealth check to get close enough. Because in digging, it'll take you most of that duration to dig up to the gate.

MARISHA: Uh-huh. Underground.

MATT: Yeah. I'd say, so in order to do this, you have to actually get fairly close before you start digging down there.

MARISHA: I rolled a 19.

MATT: 19?

MARISHA: And I have a stealth of 11.

MATT: Okay. All right, so. You make your way up there, moving through the grass best you can. The guards that are there are partially (yawns) coming to, you begin to slowly manipulate downward into the ground using a relatively untouched patch of high grass for cover, and pushing your way through. Over the next two hours, you manage to dig a ditch, the width of this entrance is about 40 feet.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: So from end to end, if you just go straight down from there at 20 feet per section every ten minutes, looking at 240 feet deep if you wanted to go the full, although, actually, having to tunnel underneath would probably take– we'll say 180 feet.

MARISHA: 180 feet. That'll do.

LAURA: Oh my god, that's amazing.

MARISHA: And I can make the ground thin enough to where it's not going to support weight, yeah?

MATT: Yeah, you give yourself enough of a buffer where yeah, you could, might require a bit of a jolt, make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Ah, jeez Louise. Ooh. 19.

MATT: Okay. You feel pretty confident that you've left just enough of a surface that it would support a little bit of weight and maintain its placement. But upon the weight of maybe two humanoid-sized individuals, it would probably crumble beneath.

MARISHA: Cool. Cool cool cool. Did I get a little black powder from you?

TALIESIN: I did, I gave you a little bit of black powder.

MARISHA: Can I put a little black powder in the top of the dirt?

MATT: What is a little bit?

MARISHA: Whatever he gave me.

TALIESIN: I have a little bit left over. I gave her a third of a barrel worth, like twice this.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So I pepper it in the top, where if it gets hit it's going to go boom.

TALIESIN: I'm going to have to deal with it eventually, but I'm fine at the moment.

MATT: Okay. All right. You pepper it on the earth from underneath. Okay.

MARISHA: Maybe it works. Maybe. I don't know.

TALIESIN: If it's hit by lightning it should be fine.

MARISHA: Okay, okay.

LIAM: So Grog's father's too big for you, what about the undead severed head of Grog's father?

SAM: I can make an image of that.

LIAM: Floating about in the air with Pike's boots.

LAURA: Oh my gosh, a floating severed head?

LIAM: Saying nasty, nasty, nasty things at the Herd.

SAM: I can do that.

TRAVIS: But he can't move if he's wearing the boots.

TALIESIN: He'll be tied to a rope. You can make it move when it's time.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Could you pull him like a balloon?

SAM: I can make the head move.

MARISHA: Can you be a floating head inside of a hamster ball?

SAM: I wouldn't need to be the head, I mean, I can't make my body look like a head.

LIAM: You can't? I thought you could do anything.

LAURA: But you can make the illusion of a head talking.

SAM: I can make the illusion of a head talking. Wizard of Oz-style.

LIAM: Can it follow you about?

MARISHA: Well, he can be on a roof.

SAM: It would be within 60 feet of me, I think.

MATT: Which one?

SAM: Minor Illusion, I guess.

MATT: Minor Illusion, you could, it's a very minor illusion.

SAM: I know.

MATT: But you could make noise escape from the vicinity of where the head is.

TALIESIN: Could I assist with that?

SAM: Because he has Minor Illusion as well.

MATT: If you're close enough to it, it's possible.

SAM: I could also do– these goliaths, they don't like wyverns. I could be a wyvern.

LAURA: The head is so perfect.

LIAM: You could be a whole wyvern, but you can't be a goliath?

SAM: It's not a beast, apparently.

MATT: Yeah. Polymorph– there are higher-level spells that can let you it, but they're a little out of your range.

SAM: A wyvern is a beast?

TALIESIN: Okay, we can do the head.

LAURA: The head. Be a head! Be a giant, floating, severed head, I like it.

TALIESIN: Can you get me out of there once they come to attack?

LAURA: Me?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: I mean, I can use the tether and tie you to the broom.

TALIESIN: I'll be the bait.

MATT: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.

SAM: Huh?

MATT: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.

SAM: I cannot be a wyvern.

TALIESIN: I can be the bait.

MARISHA: With the hat? With your hat?

ASHLEY: How are you going to be the bait?

SAM: Yeah, how are you going to be the bait?

TALIESIN: I'm going to have the severed head of your father talking to them.

SAM: Yes, I can do that too, and I can escape. You can't.

TALIESIN: Up to you. All right.

LAURA: Do it.

LIAM: Do it, Scanlan, do it.

LAURA: Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: I mean, I can try. Might be shit. How are you going to hide?

TRAVIS: Can I ask this? Let's say we pick this gate where she's digging out this ditch. What is the terrain like on the outside of the wall next to that gate?

MATT: Because of the building, or the structure of it for about 30 feet on the outside of the wall it's mainly just hard-packed dirt and earth from patrols for hundreds of years going around the wall, whether it be carts, beasts of burden, or just people walking all around the outskirts of the town of Westruun, it's very heavy-packed and often-walked earth.

TRAVIS: Zero cover.

MATT: Zero coverage within 30 feet of it, and the grass does thin as it gets close to that. Keyleth had to pick a specific area and get low and even then had to force her way under and use a good, you know, a quarter of her spell time to be able to dig well enough to get past that space.

TRAVIS: Past 30 feet from the wall, from the edge of town, what kind of cover is there? Is there any?

MATT: Not really.

TRAVIS: Not even the tall grass?

MATT: The grass at that point gets about waist- to knee-high, even less so.

TRAVIS: This is an important thing we need to remember. As we're doing all this, let's just assume that we're us and this'll all go tits-up real quick. We're going to be a fucking long way away from you before we can come to help.

SAM: That's why you're going to send Pike with me. No, I'm just kidding, I would never.

LIAM: No, but my sister or I could go with you. One of us.

SAM: That would make me feel quite nice.

TALIESIN: Sister's good for an escape route.

TRAVIS: We should at least find a forward operating base, a place where we can watch this unfold from cover and figure out how far away we are from the first act of our show.

TALIESIN: Well, if everything goes wrong we meet back here at the very least.

MARISHA: I mean, theoretically we'll be stationed throughout, and we'll have our earpieces, correct?

TALIESIN: Yeah, but I'm just talking about, what if we have to para-rescue his ass out of a fucking pickle?

TALIESIN: That's what Vex is for.

LAURA: I'm standing nearby on my broom. I'll fly in and pick him up. He can Dimension Door out, though, very quickly.

MARISHA: I also have both of my beast shaping, still, so I can always fly in and evac you.

TRAVIS: How far away are we from the entrance now?

MATT: As you guys have plotted this, and Keyleth has come back to you through the grass after creating this tunnel, I'd say you're about 150, 200 feet out.

TALIESIN: That's perfect.

SAM: And we know Westruun.

MATT: Yeah, you know it well.

SAM: And I know how far away from the center of town are we–

TRAVIS: Wait a minute, are there sewers in Westruun?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: It's okay.

TRAVIS: I don't know.

TALIESIN: We have that option if it comes to it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I hadn't thought of that.

TALIESIN: It's all right. And again, like any good plan, everything will go wrong.

LAURA: Yes.

LAURA and MARISHA: Let's do it!

TALIESIN: It's time.

MATT: The grass dies, begins to die away, and become in– not helpful for stealth about 80, 70-80 feet outside the wall.

MARISHA: Can we get a Pass Without a Trace while we all get to our positions?

LAURA: Fuck yeah.

MATT: Okay. Pass Without a Trace, even so, you can't stealth in the open. In order to stealth, you have to have some way of staying out of sight. Once you get to about 70 feet from the wall, it's basically just open ground and the large wall that surrounds Westruun.

MARISHA: I could give us a fog cloud.

LAURA: Can you dig a hole under and we can hang out in a hole with something over top of it so we can bust up out, like shallow ground?

MARISHA: I've already burned it. I mean, we can still go underground, I have a tunnel built to a certain point.

LAURA: But we have to be able to get out of it.

TALIESIN: Let's just keep our distance, let's get them out of the castle and coming out at us.

LAURA: Okay. And then we go in.

MATT: Okay. So. What's the plan? Who's doing what?

SAM: I go invisible and start walking into town.

LAURA: We stay at the very edge, stealthed as fuck.

TALIESIN: You're not going into town, why are you going into town? We dug a giant pit in front of the main entrance.

MARISHA: Yeah, everyone be mindful of the pit, I point it out to everyone where the pit is so we can go around it.

MATT: Okay. To be fair, yeah, and he is a gnome. He is not a very heavy individual. And you were pretty spot-on– You're fairly certain it can support the weight of a gnome.

MARISHA: I can Polymorph a couple people. No. Sorry. I can Polymorph one person as a stealth kind of deal.

MATT: There are the three guards there, about 20 feet in from the main gate, or the main entranceway, one of which appears to be a female goliath, muscular scar-based torso, very thick, dark, dreaded hair that's pulled tightly to the back of her head and hangs down to the mid-back, and you see two humans that are also as rugged-looking, possibly members of the secondary tribe that they adopted, as was mentioned when you first inquired about the tribe as it currently stands, the Herd. They're all just looking out, bored, one of them is chewing on some dried meat, and they're just keeping an eye out. Scanlan, you've gone invisible and you're approaching the front gate. What are you doing?

SAM: Hey, can you cast Pass Without a Trace on me?

LAURA: I already did!

SAM: Okay, good. I'm just going to walk in, straight into town.

MATT: Okay. Yeah. Just for the sake of this, go ahead and make a stealth check. With advantage.

SAM: With advantage.

MATT: Yeah, they have very little chance to even notice.

SAM: So 16 plus–

LAURA: Ten.

SAM: Plus two. So 28.

MATT: Yeah. Given the circumstance that you're invisible and that advantage roll, even the quietness of your footsteps, you manage to literally walk within five feet of them without them noticing. You hear some low mutters, some of it's just like broken words, “Stupid hungry–” And the larger female goliath is like, “Shut up. Eyes peeled. I hate this.” They look very unhappy about having to be stuck there at this watch. So you've moved past them, now.

SAM: All right, I'm going to go into the– just the center. We had a scouting party go in and see that– yes we did, yes we did. It was the center of town, and that's where the key people were around, milling about.

MATT: Yeah, the very center of town is about a 15-minute walk from the outside of town.

TALIESIN: We can hear everything that happens.

MATT: How long does your invisibility last?

SAM: An hour.

MATT: An hour. Okay. You start coasting through the town, you come towards a T-intersection of where the road continues forward and turns to the right, you can see a number of the buildings, just like you saw previously on you guys' journey, some of them are charred and black from fires that have been set. Some of them, you do notice as you pass by, large elements of the buildings have just dissolved, melted down by some sort of chemical reaction. Many buildings still stand. You do see that there are broken barrels and crates in the streets, it looks like a lot of what may have been in storage or being brought around as commerce has been ransacked and raided or relocated. You do see a couple carts that are half-broken or just up on the side, with whatever's on the inside pulled out. You do manage to see a couple of horses that were killed during some altercation that were just left rotting in the middle of the street. There are no people visible on the street. Make a perception check.

LAURA: What time is it?

MATT: At this point now? In the two hours for you to do that digging, it's close to 10:30, 11:00 in the morning.

SAM: 13.

MATT: 13. Okay. You keep walking past, you don't notice anything that catches your attention. You keep moving towards the center of the town. You start moving through the religious district of the middle of Westruun. Make another perception check.

SAM: 19.

TALIESIN: Plus.

SAM: Nothing.

MATT: 19. You glance by what you knew previously in Westruun as the central church of Erathis there. It's a rather, in comparison to the rest of the town, a gaudy temple. But it has been defiled fairly heavily. You can see paint, mud, or some other substance has been smeared across parts of it, portions of the rock have been pushed over and collapsed. You do glance and see a small humanoid peeking through one of the ajar doors that you see, for a second you see a set of eyes, then it sees you and closes the door.

LAURA: It saw you?

SAM: Oh, shit. Fuck, he knows I'm there, I got to keep going. I got to keep going, yeah.

LAURA: You're invisible!

SAM: Yeah. (laughs) Yeah.

MATT: You keep moving towards the very, very center of town, moving past a couple of other patrols. You've passed, even in just this journey into the center of– journey to the center of Westruun– you've passed roughly 30 or so well-armed, relatively savage individuals that mark the same civilized level of Grog, give or take some further steps into society. Many of them are wearing pieces of clothing that have been taken from this town, they're dressed better than their station, you know, rough-looking, big, thick, unshaven faces for the humans, but they're still like dressed in pompous clothing that's partially torn and smeared. They're a walking parody of the people that once ruled this town, and they seem to know it. They're enjoying this gloating. Eventually you make your way to the central town square, which is not far from where the Margrave's home is. This area, you do notice, has been set up as a defensive central location. There are just barriers and barricades of all sorts of furniture that have been nailed together and this has been made an assault post, where if anyone were to attempt to attack the center of this town, this would be a wonderful defensive position for someone to hole up and wait it out, whether it be against other people or a dragon. It has been built with the best of their ability in that regard. And there are a number of weapons that they've taken from the city that have been bolted in, that have been strapped around, so there's just like jagged edges of halberds and whatever blades they could muster in every direction, therefore if anything wasn't being very careful and running through here, they could be easily shoved into one of these hazards or perhaps even pushed onto it as a means of display. Which you do notice, on a number of these, various heads are currently placed as warning symbols, in varying states of decay. You recognize two of the heads. One of which is–

LAURA: No no no no no.

MATT: Sorry. One of them you recognize as the Margrave who once ruled Westruun, whose home Kevdak currently keeps as his own. And the other, let's see if I can recall what this one is. I have it written down here.

TALIESIN: I like that this is that deep in your notes, is which heads are on spikes.

MATT: Hey, man, got to keep up with this.

SAM: Appendix A: Heads on Spikes, Various.

MATT: (laughs) Pretty much.

SAM: Subappendix: Westruun.

MATT: Ah, okay, here we go. Here we go. Okay. Loran the Bear. Loran the Bear was a mercenary that you guys faced off with the first time that you fought in the brawlers' league. You guys had a playful rivalry? You kept running into each other when looking for various–

TALIESIN: It's like a best of season one, that's great.

SAM and TALIESIN: The season that didn't air.

MATT: But there you see him, or what remains of him, placed on one of these weapons. It looks like anybody who has attempted to rise up or at least make a stink about the current ruling class in Westruun have been put on display in this square in some way, shape, or form.

SAM: Are there any people? Guards? Goliaths?

MATT: You see a rather heavy group of well-armored goliaths and other savage-looking humanoid individuals. Mostly human, you see a couple half-orcs, but it's a total of ten of them that are all currently scattered throughout this central area, some of them just sitting down, snacking, a few that are just keeping watch, and a number that are hovering in and out of the door of the main area, giving orders and carrying some small supplies around.

SAM: Okay. So I'll just quickly– are you guys ready?

MARISHA: Do we want to get up on the wall? There's like a wall, right, around the city?

SAM: Yeah, but I'm in the center of the city.

MATT: Right. Also, there's no response.

LAURA: Oh, he's out of range. Shit.

SAM: Do you know what the range is on that?

MATT: The range on those earpieces are roughly two miles.

SAM: Two miles.

LAURA: He's out of two miles' range?

MATT: Well yeah, Westruun's a pretty big town, and it's–

LAURA: It's a 15-minute walk, though.

SAM: Yeah, I walk fast.

LAURA: You're a fast walker for a gnome.

MARISHA: He really is a really fast walker.

TALIESIN: Okay, go ahead.

MARISHA: I cast Polymorph on Percy and turn him into a crow.

TALIESIN: (eerily good crow noise)

LAURA: Oh, again with the crows.

MARISHA: Also, I use my beast shape to go into a crow. (crow noise)

TALIESIN: (eerily good crow noise)

MARISHA: (crow noise)

TALIESIN: That's good enough, that's good.

MARISHA: And we fly to the walls and perch on opposite sides on the entrance.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Look, your god is here to help us.

MARISHA: (crow noises)

LAURA: She sounds like shit.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: (a panoply of crow noises)

MATT: Stop it.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It's really pleasing.

MATT: All right. You guys are perched on the edges of that. Scanlan, what're you doing?

SAM: So much. So much.

LAURA: I feel like this is the first time I've seen you at a loss.

TRAVIS: Look at those eyes.

LAURA: Oh god.

TALIESIN: Don't you want her to read the note?

SAM: Yeah, I go over to where the most people are congregated.

MATT: That's going to be right at the steps of the Margrave's manor.

SAM: I position myself about seven feet away from them.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And I cast Thunderwave.

MATT: And with that, (explosion), this burst of thunder comes blasting out centrally from where you are located, Scanlan. The DC on this, with your–

SAM: Thunderwave. Oh, is it spell?

MATT: It's spell, what's your DC?

SAM: 20.

MATT: 20.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

MATT: Okay. Six fail, one succeeds on this save. So you hit them and they're all forced backwards, some of them up onto the stairs, some against the wall. Roll 2d8 points of damage.

LIAM: Ragdoll physics.

SAM: 2d8?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

SAM: No, it's– oh, that's, you're right.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: 11 plus something? No, I guess it's just 11.

MATT: It's just 11. All right, and one of them takes five points of damage and (impact sound) looks down at this little gnome that's there.

SAM: No, no, I'm still invisible. It's not a concentration spell.

MATT: Invisibility, I'm pretty sure that as soon as you do–

SAM: Oh, fuck.

MATT: The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.

SAM: Casts a spell?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Even though it's a concentration spell?

MATT: Yeah, you can cast other instantaneous spells, but as soon as you cast a spell you become visible.

SAM: What?

MATT: High-level invisibility, improved invisibility is the one that remains.

SAM: Oh well, I'm fucked, then.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Yes!

MATT: I'll say, do you have Greater Invisibility?

SAM: No. I can cast it at a greater level, but no, I don't have Greater Invisibility.

MATT: Yeah, at that moment you suddenly become visible.

TALIESIN: Roll with it, roll with it.

SAM: Hi guys. Hi.

MARISHA: But you're Scanlan, you can do this.

MATT: The surprise round, they weren't expecting it. Roll initiative right now.

MARISHA: Oh shit.

LAURA: Oh my god, Scanlan, run.

SAM: 16.

MATT: Rolled a one. I'm rolling them group initiative on this one, because I don't want to roll six different initiatives in this order. They all look at you dumbfounded. “We got an intruder!” Pull out their weapons, get ready. Two of them (growl) at you really angrily. What are you doing?

SAM: Fuck!

MATT: What are you doing, Sam?

SAM: This is not the plan!

TALIESIN: No! No!

TRAVIS: Don't say a thing, don't say shit.

LAURA: Okay, yeah yeah, it's all you.

SAM: (mock-crying) At least I know that Pike didn't read the letter, though, so I'm okay.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: At the end of this fight, can I have your tie? I mean, you're not going to need it anymore.

TRAVIS: Come on, what are you doing?

SAM: Okay. I'll Dimension Door into the house where the guy's eyeballs were.

TRAVIS: Yes! I like it.

MATT: Wait, on the, to the house–

SAM: The house where I saw the guy who was peeking and saw me, he saw me, I'm going in there.

MATT: Oh!

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Smart.

MATT: How far is the range on Dimension Door?

SAM: 500 feet. Was that long ago or recently?

MATT: Wait, so. You were peeking, are you referring to the–

SAM: The guy who saw me as invisible.

MATT: Right. Okay, got you. All right, so you're going to that temple. That's probably about 1,000 feet from you, you can Dimension Door closer to it.

SAM: Yes, I could. I could. Okay, okay. This is exciting, this is so exciting, nothing's working. Okay, yes, I will go toward it 500 feet.

MATT: Okay. You appear to the back end and around the road, just around the corner from where the entrance to that area is, so you're a little ways away. As you appear, catching your breath, you look over your shoulder and you hear in the distance more, a couple yells, and a bell starts going off (ringing) in the center of the town square.

SAM: It's going great, guys.

LAURA: Do we hear the bell?

MATT: You guys can hear in the very distance a series of bells beginning to go (ringing).

TALIESIN: Oh, sweet Jesus.

MATT: What're you doing now?

SAM: Well, they haven't caught up to me, right?

MATT: No no, you just moved 500 feet in one second, they have no idea where you went. You just showed up, went “Bye!” and vanished out.

LIAM: Bell is bad. He's in trouble, we need to go in now.

SAM: I'm going to go again, Dimension Door into the temple.

MATT: Okay, you do see the temple. You're on the interior of it now, and looking inside you know a portion of it is collapsed, there's an open view on the second level where a whole corner of the secondary floor and first floor have fallen in, big pile of rubble, you can see the sky. There as you appear, you look around, you hear a series of gasps as you can now see huddled inside of this temple roughly 30 or so people, varying ages, varying racial backgrounds. These are some of the survivors in Westruun that are keeping in here, whether it be hidden, or at least this is where they live now. They look in various states of personal brutality that's been put against them, some of them are wounded, a few of them draw weapons immediately, and turning around, you see hunkered down inside a half-orc that rushes around, his hat half-kilter, his coat up with his shoulder, mantle part of his collar pressed upward, spins around, puts his blade out. “You've got to be kidding me. Scanlan Shorthalt.”

SAM: That's me.

MATT: As Dr. Dranzel stands there before you.

(cheering)

MATT: They themselves look a little worse for wear, and he looks over his shoulder and says, “Well shit, Kaylie, weren't you just talking about him yesterday?” As your daughter stands behind him, holding two of the children, trying to protect them as you appeared. She looks up at you and goes, “Oh, you've got to be kidding me.” And that's where we'll end tonight's game.

(yelling)

TRAVIS: Perfect! Perfect, perfect.

TALIESIN: Put that on like a Japanese businessman.

LIAM: By the way, this one, under her breath, goes, “Oh I don't like him, he stole from me.”

SAM: That's all you can think about?

LAURA: Why am I cheering? He stole from us.

SAM: They're going to fucking save my life.

LIAM: Well, maybe he needed it to save the world.

MATT: It's all survival. All right, then we'll pick it up from there next week.

TRAVIS: Jesus. That was a hell of a 50th. Fuck's sake!

TALIESIN: Why did we even bother to plan?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Why do we even bother to plan?

TRAVIS: It's going perfect! It's going perfectly. We are still on the rails. It is working.

TALIESIN: We are still on the rails, it'll be great.

MARISHA: I spent a 6th-level spell building that trench, it had better come in handy.

ASHLEY: It will, it will.

TALIESIN: We're all going to fall and die in it, it's going to be great.

LIAM: Scanlan is drunken master.

MATT: All righty, guys, we're going to go ahead and take a few minutes here to hunker down and prepare for the savage unwrapping of many presents that you, the community of Critical Role, have put in our direction. All of us so eternally undeserving, but so incredibly appreciative of all that you guys do, both to help with the charities that we support and spend your time being so awesome and creative and we're going to go ahead and–

SAM: Matt, though, but what are we going to do with the minutes while we're not on camera right now? How do we fill the airtime?

MATT: We'll, I'm sure, have a few videos to show that may also include our new intro.

TALIESIN, MARISHA, and LAURA: Again! Again!

MARISHA: We're mainly doing this for our own selfishness. 

MATT: Due to apparently a fried motherboard suddenly, we're not gonna be able to– we're gonna have to be switching cameras tonight so bear with us. It's gonna be a lot of one shots. Single shots cutting back and forth. But it'll still be a great episode. Hope you enjoy. Let's go ahead and get to these announcements real fast. Those who haven't seen it, Dragon+ Magazine put up today a new issue in which they interviewed me and a bunch of other great DM's that stream for West Marches and Real Roleplay and Highrollers and Chris Perkins himself. So go check that out, the new issue of Dragon+ if you get the chance and maybe find some wisdom in there. Also we just released recently, if– unless you guys are releasing it now, a new cell phone wallpaper, featuring some of the amazing photography of our recent group's photo shoot in costume. So that I think is up on the social media now. Is that right?

LAURA: Mhm.

MATT: Go find it. It is somewhere on the internet.

LAURA: It's up on Twitter and on Facebook.

MATT: There you go. Twitter and Facebook, go find it. Next up… a really amazing game called Mascarada that I'm lucky to be a part of. It's on Kickstarter to finish up their big push for the final polish of the game. If you're looking for a great kind of isometric, beautifully drawn RPG experience, go check out the Kickstarter and if it's something you wanna help make the best it can possibly be, do so, so go check out Mascarada on Kickstarter. Also, this week, or as of last Friday, the Goblin one-shot that we did with Marisha and Taliesin and a bunch of other fantastic guests is up on the Geek and Sundry website if you haven't seen it yet. It's ridiculous and I think you'll enjoy it. And… Also, as a reminder, that the “How do you want to do this?” sweaters are still up for pre-order in the store.

LAURA: Oh wait, but it has to switch.

SAM: No, it switches.

LAURA: It switches?

SAM: They can switch cameras.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Just one at a time.

LAURA: Wait, wait.

MATT: And, we finally have the “How do you want to do this?” T-shirts back in stock in the shop. So those who missed that, we finally, finally got them back up in stock on the website, so if you're looking for those, they're available.

LAURA: They're for pre-order for another week.

TRAVIS: There's like modeling happening right now.

LAURA: And then, I know there was modeling.

TRAVIS: These European models are in these smoking hot–

ASHLEY: Oh, who? These European models?

TALIESIN: Look, they see something fascinating far away and they're turning to see it. Oh, look at that.

[audio silence]

MATT: Liam?

LIAM: What? Oh man I hope in the last hour, I hope in the last hour, where you had all this time to kill, you went to Wyrmwood Gaming to get boxes for your dice where you could use the code Critrole.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Critrole!

LIAM: To get free shipping. Not free boxes, but free shipping with Critrole. Also, I think we got one more week on their Kickstarter for the sentinel box, you can get this logo on any box, but–

LAURA: Right here.

LIAM: You could also get the Vox Machina box which is pretty sweet.

LAURA: Inlaid and fancy.

TRAVIS: If you're nuts.

LIAM: I keep a human heart in here.

LAURA: It's true.

LIAM: Critrole.

(laughing)

MATT: All right. Anything else, are we good to jump into this game for tonight?

TRAVIS: Light this candle.

LAURA: Let's do it, oh my gosh.

MATT: Alright folks, let's go ahead and bring us down back into tonight's episode of Critical Role.

(spooky ethereal music)

(heavy breathing)

(roaring)

(dramatic music)

(gun firing)
Part I

MATT: Welcome back. So, last we left off, the party having found their way back to the city of Westruun, which had been overrun by the herd of roving nomadic tribal barbarians and other such brigands that wander the landscape of Tal'Dorei that Grog once belonged to, had swooped in and taken Westruun after the Chroma Conclave dragon attack across this countryside. The party had devised a plan to find their way into the town or at least one of them would, distract a cluster of these individuals, these Goliaths, many of which are, you know, half-giant Goliaths pulling them out of the city into a large pit that had been hidden after being carved by the druid Keyleth. Scanlan went in to be the distraction, becoming invisible, leaping to the center of the main town square, right in front of the margrave's house, where apparently the leader of this clan, Kevdak, which has a long history with Grog, resides. As part of this distraction, Scanlan released a thunderwave and in doing so unknowingly also revealed himself as the invisibility spell went away. And an entire cluster of very angry-looking individuals bear down on him, managed to escape thanks to dimension door, twice and made your way into the partially ruined Temple of Arathis where you came face to face with a number of refugee Westruun villagers and Dr. Dranzel and Kaylee. And that is where we left off. So, after appearing and having a moment of realizing the scenario, you see a handful of people, most of them filthy, completely beleaguered, and in need of not being in this circumstance as long as they possibly can. And you can see Kaylee kinda holding them back defensively and Dranzel, having just noticed your appearance and calling out to you with a chuckle, realizing that you're here and Kaylee rolling her eyes, apparently unable to really escape through fate, though there is a look, a brief glance of appreciation that at least you're not burnt to a crisp somewhere outside Emon. But Dranzel walks up to you and is like, as hushed as he can be, “Scanlan, so glad to see that you survived. What are you doing here?”

SAM: Well… Doctor… there will be plenty of time for, for festive reunions and… hopefully tearful hellos but right now I'm afraid we have a bit of problem. See, my friends are stationed outside the main gate, lying in wait for these Goliaths that are terrorizing the town. My mission was to come in here and somehow convince the Goliaths to leave through the main gate and my mission is not complete, and I'm afraid, well, I've roused them and they're going to come in here and kill us al, unless I get them out through the main gate. So, we're in a bit of a time crunch-- Hi. And Doctor, Doctor, you are such a long friend of mine and a trusted companion but I'm afraid, though I love you, I - you cannot help me. I need Kaylee's help in this.

MATT: At which point, Dranzel, whose face has fallen into a look of absolute fear and despair to confusion to mild frustration. Continues still glaring in your face, goes, “Well, I guess some things don't change over time, you son of a bitch. (laughing) “Okay, well, Kaylee?” And he looks over his shoulder and Kaylee kinda steps up now and brushes off her shoulder. “All right, so what kind of business am I getting you out of now, father?”

SAM: Well, not just, not just getting me out of. I'm afraid, I'm afraid we'll all die if you don't help.

MATT: “Great, great, that's fantastic.”

SAM: I'm sorry.

MATT: “You've just banished all of these fine folks to their demise. Do you feel good?”

SAM: No, no I haven't, not if you help, so… Listen, I've been thinking a lot about you, and it's so wonderful to see you and I just need you to trust me in this and, and lend me your talents and your magic if you can. Will you trust me today?

MATT: “Doesn't seem like I really have much of a choice.” At which point you hear in the outside footfalls, heavy footfalls, going in the street on the outside of the temple and you hear some shouting muffled in the distance. (muffled shouting) (mimics heavy footsteps) Everyone kinda stays really still and silent. And then you… Hear a few more footsteps. (mimics footsteps) (mimics loud crash) On the partially broken door of the temple, some heavy hand falls hit and everyone just kinda ducks down and the air leaves the room entirely. At which point there's a moment of pause, and the door begins to push open against all the rocks and this barricade that's been placed against the door slides against the ground, opens ever so slightly. Quiet still stands and you see these fingers come through and pull it and another voice say, “Hey, give me a hand here, this one's barricaded.” The door slides a couple more inches and you see an arm come through. Now holding against the side of the room. Another arm comes out.

SAM: Shit. Can I grab Kaylee and get everyone to, is there anywhere to hide in this room? Any place in the back?

MATT: We'll it's a partially collapsed, like, half-ceiling area that's part of the temple on the second floor. There is an area beneath the spiral staircase that leads to the second floor that can fit most of the people there.

SAM: Okay. I'm going to very quickly, and with her help, usher everybody back into this back stair.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Turn around, blow my horn of fog to fill the room partially with smoke.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And then I'm going to tell Kaylee, can you throw your voice?

MATT: After that. (mimics horn) Just fills with this heavy, heavy mist, obscuring the vision of most everyone in the room that isn't directly at your side. You hear the voice at the door go, “Hey, what's that coming out here?” And then now fighting heavily against the door and it's slamming against the barricade. (mimics banging and slamming) And Kaylee, kind of getting a feel for what's happening. “All right, what can I do?”

SAM: You can throw your voice, I've seen you do it once, right.

MATT: "I can, I can."

SAM: Can you change your voice?

MATT: "I can."

SAM: Okay. Can you be… the scariest fucking voice you've ever done in your entire life? I will tell you what to say, I'll whisper it to you. You just be the voice, I will be the visuals, all right? I'm gonna create an image, and you're going to talk out of it, all right?

MATT: "All right, all right. Let's go."

SAM: Okay. So I will use just a minor illusion to create the head of Stonejaw Strongjaw.

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: Jaw Jaw?

ALL: Jaw Jaw!

(laughing)

TRAVIS: Okay, I like this.

(laughing)

LIAM: Aw, me so sorry.

(laughing)

TRAVIS: You talkin' about my family now?

(laughing)

MATT: All right, so.

TRAVIS: I'm no fuckin' Gungan.

(laughing)

MATT: So. As the essence of minor illusion, it is a very, very simple illusion.

SAM: For sure.

MATT: As far as I know, it can't even really move.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: It can be an image.

SAM: Yeah, that's fine. It's gonna be floating amongst fog.

MATT: Okay, so within this fog, you see as they push through the door, the barricade clatters down. A section of a table and a chair and a lot of the rubble that was kinda scooped up from the roof that had caved in jammed against this door gets skirted back, tumbles and clatters across the stone work. And you see one Goliath and one kind of rough-looking human with a ragged beard come rushing in. You know, dual hand axes drawn and looking about the fog, as suddenly, out of the middle of this space, a giant semi-translucent disembodied head of what you recall is (laughs) Stonejaw Strongjaw.

(laughing)

MARISHA: Wilson. Wilson.

MATT: Standing there, leaning forward at a large, though, you know… I will say, though, initially, what is your DC on this?

SAM: It's through the hand cone. So it's 20.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Oh, wow.

MATT: They both stop and just kinda go, “Uh… (laughing) "Are you seeing what I'm seeing?” And he's like, “Yeah.” And there's just a moment of pause there, and Kaylee's looking at you like…

SAM: Okay, really quick, here's your motivation. You're a dead Goliath, you were killed in combat by one of your own. And you probably sound really scary and fucked up. Ready, go. Okay I tell her, I am Stonejaw Strongjaw.

MATT: She puts her hands together and clasps almost like the grass reeds that you blow into. But as she speaks into her hand, it sends out these rippling, kind of… Almost like a heat distortion that kind of just scatters out from her hand and outside of this central illusion, you hear a voice, comes booming forward, “I–”

SAM: Fuck yes.

MATT: “Am Stonejaw Strongjaw. Returned from the realm of the dead.”

SAM: Yes, yes, yes, that's good. Keep going, keep going, you're doing great! I love you! Okay, uh– (laughing) "Kevdak's son Zanror killed me in dishonorable combat!"

(laughing)

MATT: “Kevdak's son Zanror killed me in dishonorable combat!”

SAM: I can't go to the other side until I have avenged my death.

MATT: “I cannot move on to the other side until I've avenged my death!”

(laughing) (growling)

MATT: The Goliath goes, “Sorry, then.”

(laughing)

MATT: As he steps out of the room, the guy with the straggled beard who you gather is of a different type of a tribal background than the Goliaths, just kind of gleans an eye untrustingly. “Yeah, Strongjaw, you say, how strong is that jaw of yours?” And throws an ax towards it. It just passes through and clatters behind.

SAM: Okay. Quick, say “You idiot, I am but a projection”.

MATT: “You idiot! (laughing) "I am but a projection!”

SAM: The real Stonejaw is currently outside the main gate, waiting for a battle of revenge against Zanror. Send him now.

MARISHA: That's a lot.

SAM: I know. Sorry, Kaylee.

MATT: “The real Zanror stands outside this city gate, waiting… For vengeance against Zanror!”

SAM: You're doing great, you're doing great!

MATT: “Bring him now, or you all shall suffer!”

SAM: That last part was improv! That was amazing, Kaylee!

(laughing) (grunting)

MATT: There's like a slight pause. “Can I have my axe back?”

SAM: I motion to Dr. Dra to throw it back to him.

MATT: He runs over, feels for it, looks around.

SAM: Throw it hard!

MATT: “I will throw it hard!”

SAM: No, no, don't say that part, don't say that part! (laughing) It's fine, you're doing great.

MATT: He starts backing up towards the door. At which point, the ax just clatters past him, slams into the door behind him. He reaches up without looking and he grabs it. “Thank you.”

SAM: The main gate, the main gate!

MATT: “The main gate.”

SAM: Wow!

MATT: “There's like four gates into the city. Which main gate?”

SAM: I don't know, do I know what it looks like?

MATT: The western one.

SAM: The western gate, the western gate!

MATT: “The western gate!” (laughing) “Right, right, I'll let him know.” And he just leaves. Doesn't even touch the door, he just bolts out the back.

(laughing)

LAURA: Oh man, I love this so much.

MATT: There's a moment of quiet.

MARISHA: I just hope that works.

MATT: Dr. Dranzel walks by. (chuckles) “I have to say, you two make quite the team.”

SAM: I would say that as well, yes, I would. Thank you, Kaylee, that was… Better than I could have ever done.

MATT: "That's true. All right then, so… We're getting people out of here. Things have gone a bit up. How are we gonna get the rest of these folks out?” And Dranzel thinks for a second, he goes, “Well, we can't wait for the rest of the team. They're probably still on their way back from Kymal. I've unfortunately mostly spent my capabilities for the day. Scanlan, what do you got?”

SAM: To keep us all safe?

MATT: “No, to get the rest of these poor saps out!”

SAM: Out of the city? Jesus, uh…

MATT: “Were you gonna leave them here unguarded?”

SAM: Oh, no, of course I'm not gonna leave them unguarded! I just, I mean, we can't… How many people are here?

MATT: You look around the room, there's nine people.

SAM: I can get me and Kaylee out. (laughing) I think we should just hunker down. (laughs) I can't get us out, I'm sorry! I mean, we could sneak, we could sneak, we could try to make a sneak for it. Are there sewers here?

MATT: Kaylee nods. “There are sewers, aye.”

SAM: Close by? Is there an entrance nearby?

MATT: “About two blocks that way.” And she points to the south side of the city.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: “Should we wait for your friends, or should we go ahead and take this route?”

SAM: We should wait and make sure that we hear Goliath footsteps leaving the city before we move, and then go.

MATT: “All right. Let's take a moment and make sure at least all the chaos is moving that way.” Quiet takes over as the fog slowly fades over the next few minutes, and you all stay out of sight. Now, the rest of you guys are currently waiting on the outskirts of the western side of town. You hear the bells going off in the distance. You hear the sound of shouts as the guards that were at that post start stepping back inward, trying to figure out what's going on. At this distance, it's hard to make out exactly what conversation is happening, but the energy of the outside of the city has definitely climbed up a few paces. Which leads you to believe, hopefully, this means Scanlan's done his job. We shall find out. Is there any other preparation you guys wanna go through right now, or are you just waiting to see any sign of movement?

LAURA: Are we all, like, together or are we spread out across everything?

TALIESIN: We're birds.

LAURA: You're birds.

MARISHA: We're birds on a wall.

LAURA: We're standing together in, like, the tall grass.

LIAM: That's right. We were watching.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: We're with everybody else.

LAURA: I'm gonna take a minute to– anybody standing near me, I'm gonna take a minute and use, um… Where's my thing? I'm freaking out! Hide in plain sight?

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And make it to where we can set a surprise attack on them.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: On anybody coming out.

MATT: All right. All right. So, as part of that, I'll have you guys both roll stealth checks.

LIAM: Sure.

(laughing)

LAURA: Do we still, is the Pass Without Trace still active from before? I think it is.

MATT: I think you cast it before you arrived, or in the approach, so, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, so add 10 to that.

LIAM: 35.

LAURA: 35!

MATT: Oh, look at that. Hopefully that's enough.

LIAM: It's like that scene in Willow where–

TALIESIN: All right, um, since we're birds. I want to take just an occasional high-level…

MARISHA: Circle around?

TALIESIN: Circle around, just to see what's up.

MATT: Okay, both of you guys roll perception checks.

MARISHA: 26.

TALIESIN: Uh, 18.

MATT: 26, 18?

MARISHA: Yeah.

(Matt stands, Marisha does excited heavy breathing)

LAURA: Oh, see, that's what we could do, Matt! We could've just sat you on the same side of the table as us.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you could've been behind us and…

MATT: Oh, that's true. That is true. Oh well, too late now. All right, so… (whispers inaudibly)

SAM: Any products you want me to hawk while the camera's on us?

LAURA: Those shirts, man!

SAM: These shirts?

LAURA: Not those shirts, these shirts! How do you wanna do this?

SAM: How do you wanna do this? We already hawked those.

TRAVIS: The hoodie and the T-shirt! T-shirts in stock, one more week.

SAM: How do you want to do this? T-shirts are now available for something. Pre-order?

LAURA: Also pre-order for another week.

SAM: I don't know, man!

LAURA: Also, also the necklaces and the keychains are still there.

SAM: Necklaces and keychains? But those are a fantastic birthday or Christmas gift.

LAURA: They really are!

ASHLEY: What are the necklaces?

LAURA: The necklaces? We still haven't gotten to those!

TALIESIN: Or Arbor Day.

SAM: Arbor Day seems like a good– Memorial Day.

TALIESIN: Memorial Day!

SAM: People give gifts on Memorial Day.

TALIESIN: I got gifts on Memorial Day.

SAM: Yeah. So underneath your Memorial Day tree this year…

LAURA: It's cute. It's like steel.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Oh my gosh.

MATT: So.

ASHLEY: Umm…

MATT: Yes, Pike.

ASHLEY: Can I cast Guardian of Faith near us, where we are hiding at the gate?

MATT: If you'd like to.

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: Uh, on your location on the gate, or somewhere else?

ASHLEY: Because we're all, we're all together by the hole that you dug.

LIAM: Aren't we–?

LAURA: We're like, in the– We're in the grass.

MATT: In the grass, down toward the front, kind of farther back from the gate. Where are you guys standing right now?

TRAVIS: Are you– 'Cause the twins are by themselves, right?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

ASHLEY: Ah, so we're all apart.

MATT: Yeah, you and Grog are kind of your own pod right now.

ASHLEY: Oh, hi Grog.

TRAVIS: Hey.

ASHLEY: I just forgot you were–

TRAVIS: Just us chillin'. (laughing) About to split some skulls.

ASHLEY: You know what, I'm gonna pause, I'm gonna pause.

MATT: Okay, you gonna hold off?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so, you guys, what are you doing? (mimicking birds)

TRAVIS: Jesus.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm on the wall, right?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

MARISHA: I'm gonna kind of, like, scootch back a little bit so I'm kind of hidden. I'm gonna drop my animal form.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I'm gonna go over the… Our earpieces.

MATT: Mm-hmm.

TALIESIN: I'm flying near her so I can hear, but I can't talk.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: It looks like there's about six coming our way. I don't know how well Scanlan's distraction worked. It looks like they're double down– doubling down and setting up a heavy defense in the center of the town.

LIAM: Is Scanlan listening to you right now?

MARISHA: Scanlan, can you hear me? Scanlan?

MATT: There's no response.

MARISHA: Shit. I think he's too far away, you guys, I don't know.

LAURA: Hopefully he wasn't captured.

MARISHA: There's about six coming this way, so stay down, hopefully the trap works.

TRAVIS: I just thought of something. Hey, remember when we were, like, walking through the woods and we fought those six Goliaths and I stopped the fight? Remember? Yeah, that was Zanror, right?

MARISHA: Right.

TRAVIS: So I think he knows that I'm not, like, back from the dead.

LAURA: Well, shit, Grog!

TRAVIS: I know, I just thought of it, you know, like, the whole magic thing might not actually work.

LAURA: So the whole plan we made was stupid?

TRAVIS: No no no, I'm just saying, let's move forward.

MARISHA: You're using your father, right? Your father is dead, right? Your dad's dead?

LIAM: Yes, yes.

TRAVIS: I don't know.

LIAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Yeah, he is, yes.

LAURA: He's dead. (laughing)

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah, he's dead.

TRAVIS: Yeah, he's dead.

MARISHA: Okay, well, hopefully it works. I don't know how well this is working–

TRAVIS: Just a pro-tip, Vax, what would you say is the number one thing to keep in mind when fighting someone like me?

LIAM: Uh, don't?

LAURA: Keep your distance.

TRAVIS: Yeah, keep your distance.

MARISHA: All right, good to know. What's our plan B in case Zanror never comes out?

LAURA: We go in and we kill everyone.

LIAM: Yeah, pretty much.

TRAVIS: Everyone?

LAURA: Well, except for the nice people.

TRAVIS: Oh.

(laughing)

LIAM: And we decide who the nice people are.

MARISHA: I think I can confirm that Vox Machina has been a terrible influence on me, just want to throw that out. All right, let's go.

LAURA: Where are they, where are they?

TALIESIN: I also want to just see if I recognize, I'm just doing another little flippity-flop scan around, and I just want to see if I recognize his brother as one of the people who's coming to the gate or not. I'll get down low for that.

MATT: Not a brother, per se.

TRAVIS: My cousin?

TALIESIN: Your cousin, I mean. The one I recognize because I, the only one I've met.

MATT: Right. At this height?

TALIESIN: I'll get, I'll get–

MATT: You'll get low?

TALIESIN: I'll get low.

MATT: Okay, you don't see anybody coming towards that direction that resembles the individual that you met that one time before.

TALIESIN: Okay, fine. I'm gonna go looking.

MATT: However, what you do notice is, and you quickly duck out of the way, there are two giant eagles that come coasting over the city in the same direction.

(gasps)

TRAVIS: Giant eagles?

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm gonna go find a perch on the other side of the gate. And I'm gonna find a nice little sniper's nest.

MARISHA: I'm assuming you have some clan members who might be druids, do you know?

TRAVIS: You're speaking really smart right now and it's confusing me.

(laughing)

LAURA: Make sure you're hiding, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I want to stealth, I kind of want to hunker down against the wall and stealth.

MATT: Roll a stealth check.

TALIESIN: I'm staying bird until the last possible moment.

MARISHA: Uh, 21.

MATT: 21? Hmm.

LIAM: Guys, if no one comes towards the gate in the next five, ten minutes–

MARISHA: They're on their way, right?

LIAM: They're not going to come. Well, all right, I hope so, but if nobody's here in ten, I think we gotta go in.

MARISHA: So is there anyone coming towards the western gate?

MATT: At this point in time, you guys on your side notice, – and you as well – a cluster of about six individuals come rushing towards the gate, and the two guards who were over to the side earlier join up with them. They stop for a second, and they discuss at a distance. Then they all turn and rush towards the gate as a group of nine.

(gasps)

MARISHA: Come on, trap! Work, trap, work, trap! Come on!

MATT: As they're rushing forward, it's about three, two, and then a scattered four-ish in the back. They go bolting through, eyes around, looking for any sort of sight of anyone waiting at the front of the gate. They begin to slow their pace a little bit, not seeing anybody immediately out there, as they begin to go through the center of the archway.

MARISHA: Someone make a distraction, quick!

TRAVIS: I step out from cover, very slowly, and walk out in the middle of the room.

MARISHA: Oh, shit.

MATT: Okay, as you step out, they all immediately put their hands out and stop and to the guards, shout out, “You, who goes there?”

TRAVIS: (heavy breathing, growling) (laughing) “Stonejaw!” (laughing)

MATT: Two of them, of that group, start stepping backwards while the two guards that were stationed at the gate the entire time, they just go, “Cut him down.” And they go into a run through the rest of, the ten, fifteen-foot area, around the center part of the gate out into the main area out front. As they begin stepping, (mimics footsteps) watching in the distance, you notice one foot crumbles through, and all of a sudden, the second foot, and the earth begins to just tumble out from underneath two of them. Three of them, four of them, five of them. All begin just, the first line, the first two groups, weren't even paying attention and focused on you as they charged through, they all begin to tumble inside–

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: The, uh, of the last four, two of them manage to stop in time to kind of catch themselves. Of all the ones that fell, though, the ones in front who originally got caught have no saving throw. They just plummet, screaming, down–

TALIESIN: Two managed not to fall?

MARISHA: 180 feet.

SAM: It's 180 feet! Holy god!

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Two managed not to fall?

MATT: Two manage to avoid the entire crumbling portion of it and there are three of them that are currently holding onto the edges and trying to pull themselves back up.

TALIESIN: Can I find, I want to find a good enough vantage point where I'm behind them and I can give them a push. Like, from a distance.

LIAM: As a bird?

LAURA: You're a bird!

MARISHA: Well, I was gonna say, I can drop, as soon as he lands, I drop his polymorph, as soon as he lands.

LAURA: Well, but I was– waiting for a–

MARISHA: Well, he's on the roof. He's on the wall.

MATT: Well, first, I'm gonna determine how much damage they took.

TALIESIN: Okay.

(laughing)

MARISHA: All of it?

SAM: We are the best at planning.

MATT: That is… That is… 83 damage to them.

SAM: 83? That's pretty good!

(laughing)

MATT: And if I look at the sheets here.

TRAVIS: That means toast for any of us.

SAM: And they're prone.

(laughing)

ASHLEY: We would be dead.

LIAM: That's me.

MATT: Now, you hear a horrible scream and a crunch sound as they all, those that fell are unconscious or currently completely unable–

TRAVIS: Yes! We did something right!

MATT: Low moans of pain barely echoing up from underneath as the other ones, like, they grab the arms of the ones that are hanging over–

LAURA: Are they clustered?

MATT: They're clustered in, yeah.

LAURA: Ah!

TALIESIN: I want to take two– I'm taking two… Where's my English? Trick shot push shots.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Push shot number one.

SAM: (mimics shooting)

TALIESIN: Uh, that's… That's with Retort, I'm not using the big gun. 18, 19… 21?

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: And then they, every time they hit, they take damage, and they also… Yeah, they don't even have a save.

MATT: Nope, just pushes them.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's, and then that does… 14 points of damage.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: For the one.

MATT: Which then, that one gets pushed over the side, does not make its save to try to catch the edge, plummets down, suffering… Just 'cause it's fun to check… 70 points of damage. A sickening smack sound–

LAURA: Landing on the other ones.

MATT: Landing on the other ones. It's awful. Looking down there would be terrible right now.

TALIESIN: Have some taste. And the next one? Um, that's 17, 27, 30 to hit.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that one.

TALIESIN: Uh, that's… 13 points of piercing damage? 13 points of piercing damage.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Plus the push.

MATT: He gets pushed, falls off the edge, catches his arm on the side, and begins pulling himself up. Now there's four of them that are currently now about to start climbing up outside of this, this collapsed portion of earth, but the earth is still crumbling beneath them, as they're trying–

LAURA: I cast, I cast Hail of Thorns and shoot in the cluster of them.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make the… The Hail of Thorns, it is–

TALIESIN: Does that drop count as a kill? Do I get a grit point back for that, or no?

MATT: Uh, yeah, I'll say.

LAURA: The next time I hit a creature with a ranged weapon, I rolled a 27.

MATT: Yeah, so right now, you're aiming at them all in the hole. From your perspective, they're gonna have three-quarters cover. So that–

LAURA: I just need to hit the one that's closest to the top.

MATT: Right, what's your total roll on that?

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27? Yeah, even with the three-quarters cover, that'll still hit. Okay. So go ahead and roll damage on that.

LIAM: Is everyone still standing, by the way?

MATT: No. Both the ones that were standing got pushed into the hole by gun blasts from behind. Shoved into the large, open chasm beneath them.

LAURA: 26 damage.

MATT: 26 damage? Casting this at what level?

LAURA: Level three.

MATT: At level three? Nice. All right. Each creature within five feet of it? Okay, so it's, at five feet, the hole's a much bigger space, so it only hits two of them.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I'll fling a dagger at the last one once you're done.

MATT: Okay. So, this is all happening simultaneously. (mimics battle sounds) Daggers. (laughing) So, it blasts two of them, they both catch themselves–

LAURA: Oh, wait! That was sneak attack.

MATT: Yes, so you would actually get to…

LAURA: Add another six?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Six!

TRAVIS: Wow.

MATT: All right, that will make them… Not too happy. And your turn?

LIAM: All right, throwing one dagger. Okay, and it's advantage because I'm hiding… And it is 27 to hit.

MATT: That hits, even with the cover.

LIAM: And it's… A sneak attack, and a surprise, so it's a crit, right? 'Cause I'm hidden underneath shit. 'Cause she hid us.

LAURA: Hide in plain sight.

MATT: Technically… Yeah, I'll let it happen, 'cause it's part of the surprise round, we'll say this is all happening simultaneously. They fall in, grasp, then they catch themselves, and then the blade comes out of nowhere. So yeah, I'll let that happen.

LIAM: 18, 19…

MARISHA: I know, all the dice.

LIAM: 21, 34… 34 turns to 68, plus the bonus is 70, 74.

TALIESIN: That's obscene.

MATT: With that, the blade sinks into the top of the skull of the one. The Goliath's trying to pull himself out. As it hits, his arms just go limp and he falls backward and disappears beneath the earth.

LIAM: And just in case, I'm using my bonus action to hide.

(laughing)

LAURA: Oh shit, I should've done that!

MATT: Go ahead and roll stealth.

TALIESIN: None goth'er than thou.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: 25? Okay, good enough. All right–

LAURA: Could I do the same thing, because I forgot to hide, for my bonus action as well?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Both of them just–

(laughing)

LAURA: 30.

MATT: 30, okay.

LAURA: Did you add 10?

LIAM: No, I didn't. Way higher.

MATT: So as it stands now, there are… I believe… Two more in there that are currently holding on to try and find their way up. As this is happening, Keyleth, you're paying attention, you hear this high-pitched (screech). You look over your shoulder just in time to see a large giant eagle swoop down, talons extended towards you, visible on the top of the wall.

TALIESIN: There's no way I could use my third shot really quick, is there?

MATT: Uh, no, you're too focused on the thing in front you.

TRAVIS: (singing) Let the eagle soar!

MATT: It swoops down and the talon strikes you, the talon's pushing you forward, that is gonna be a... 20? Does that hit your AC?

MARISHA: Yeah, that hits.

MATT: All right. You suffer nine points of piercing damage as its claws dig into you and attempt to throw you from the top of the wall.

MARISHA: Okay, bring it.

MATT: Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw to try and grab the ledge before you plummet.

MARISHA: That's not great. Uh, 11.

MATT: Unfortunately, you don't even know which way is up as the talons chuck you forth and you plummet from the top of the wall. You fall down a total of 45 feet.

MARISHA: Can I go, like, can I turn back into a raven as I fall? My other bonus, my other action?

MATT: Yeah. I'll say go ahead, make a constitution saving throw as part of your concentration check, just to see if you're able to focus your mind in that quick period of time.

MARISHA: Uh, 19.

MATT: 19, yeah! (applause) As you're spiraling backwards, seeing the eagle, you look behind you to the ground, close your eyes, swoop upward into the form of a raven.

LAURA: Awesome! Great work.

MARISHA: That was sick.

TALIESIN: Sail!

MARISHA: Sail!

(laughing)

MATT: All right, you guys watch as the other two guys stand up, getting out, (grunts) and look about. You are now still standing out in the middle of a thoroughfare, you're hiding off behind one of the chunks of rubble and rock that permeate the outside of the wall in places. You guys are still hidden.

MARISHA: Since I'm a raven now, can I do a loop back to the center of town and see what's going on?

MATT: Yep. So you're heading back to the center of town, it's gonna take you a little bit to get there.

MARISHA: Yep.

MATT: They get back up to the top. They spend most of their turn getting to that edge, and taking a few steps away from it, getting their weapons out and kind of glaring at each other and trying to figure out what the hell they can do right now as you start looming towards them.

TRAVIS: I, unarmed, start walking towards them. And I say, “Where is Kevdak?”

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: Oh, boy. Not his strength.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13?

SAM: Plus…

(laughing)

MATT: All right. As you say that… One of the two individuals has pulled their way out. Humanoid, kind of a grizzled beard. His eyes kind of go wide, and he just stands still for a second. The other one is a Goliath who, as he approaches, you get a familiarity with, you remember this individual. Little younger than you. Has a pretty, pretty heavy scar from the bottom of the chin that goes down to about the sternum. Named by, by the name of Suda who just kind of steps forward, gives you a look-over and goes, “Strongjaw, ha. You're a Grog stronger, that's what you are.”

TRAVIS: Fool. You know not who I am. I have not come through flame and death to deal with filth like you.

MATT: “He's a bleedin' liar. Come on, you guys have been had.” And he goes ahead and takes the two hand axes, he throws them in the air and kinda catches them. He goes (grunts) and rushes in towards you. However, he's unable to make anything else this turn except movement into face-to-face with Grog. We'll say, for the purposes of this open space, Grog will be there and this one…

SAM: Suda.

TRAVIS: Suda.

MATT: He's gonna… Not quite as–

LAURA: Tiny.

MATT: That blade there.

LAURA: He's pathetic. Look at that loser.

(laughing)

ASHLEY: Kill him, Grog!

LAURA: Kill him, Grog!

MATT: Is anybody else doing anything right now on this turn? Or are we just waiting to see what happens here?

TALIESIN: I'm observing.

MATT: Okay. So. As you're watching and you're heading off that direction, Grog, he comes forward, in your face, what do you do?

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

(laughing)

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Take out the firebrand warhammer, and I'm gonna tattoo his ass.

(laughing)

MATT: Go for it, go ahead and take your two attacks.

(laughing)

TRAVIS: Uh, 16.

MATT: 16? Misses.

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: I cast War God's Blessing.

(gasps)

MATT: As Pike steps out from the high grass, in this–

ASHLEY: What up, motherfucker? Oh!

(laughing)

MARISHA: Pike is back!

MATT: With that, the little bit of noise distraction outside, turns his face, his eyes peeking out the corner of the eye sockets, and that's just the little moment of opportunity you need to go ahead and double up and slam upward with the butt of the hammer. Go ahead, roll damage for that attack.

TRAVIS: Oh God, it's been so long since I used the… (laughing) Uh, that's 17.

MATT: 17 damage, got it. Second attack?

TRAVIS: Second attack is 24.

MATT: That hits, roll damage on that one as well.

LIAM: Hey, where'd the grizzly guy go?

MATT: The grizzly guy's just stepping back a little bit. Or like, he's like taking one step onto his back foot, not even approaching Grog.

LAURA: Where's the eagles?

MATT: The eagles aren't too far from your side right now.

SAM: And where's the pit?

MATT: The pit is about 10 feet behind the guy who's standing. Actually, I should probably put him there right now.

TALIESIN: Also, I'd like to keep an eye out for the eagles as well.

MATT: He's about there.

LIAM: And where's the chasm?

LAURA: He's putting it down, he's putting it down.

LIAM: All right!

MATT: I'm doing this, I'm drawing it out for you guys.

SAM: Come on, invent a battle map, just like that, Matt! Come on!

(laughing)

TALIESIN: That is a really good chasm.

LAURA: That is a huge chasm!

MARISHA: We're watching his magic in real life.

LAURA: Where's all the dead bodies at the bottom of it?

MARISHA: Yeah, can you draw detailed dead bodies?

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Can you just grade it a little bit?

MATT: Oh, I'm dead!

SAM: Do you like to draw, or sketch, or just doodle?

LIAM: Where are the twins right now?

MATT: Twins would be back here.

LAURA: Hiding.

MATT: Pike would be off to the side here.

TALIESIN: Way off in the middle of fuck-all.

MATT: Percy's like (babbling)

TALIESIN: I'm gonna keep an eye out for the eagles, too, so…

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Everybody keep commenting if you see something–

LAURA: Where's the eagles?

TRAVIS: So the last attack was 18, plus two points of the fire damage, for 20.

MATT: For 20, nice.

TRAVIS: The second attack.

MATT: Okay. So that ends your turn. He's gonna go ahead and go for a round of retaliation against you, using the action surge that was afforded by it, gonna make four attacks on you. That is a really, really shitty 16.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: Misses. That is a 24.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: That is 25.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And a 22.

TRAVIS: That also hits.

MATT: So three hits on you.

LAURA: He's strong!

MARISHA: How does he get four attacks? Is he a fighter?

TALIESIN: Action surge.

MARISHA: Oh, action surge?

(groans)

MATT: So this would be 11 points of slashing damage, reduced to six. Or five, actually, for you. That is… 14 points slashing damage reduced to seven.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: And nine reduced to four.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: He just hacks into you (grunts) and looks forward and sees you barely moved by this flurry.

TRAVIS: Oh tiny dancer, you are fucked.

(laughing)

MATT: Anyone else jumping in on this?

LIAM: Yeah, can I do a thing? I want to stealth and creep over to where Pike is.

MATT: Okay. You've been stealthed, but yeah–

LIAM: And I would like to hold my action and if the Goliath's buddy does anything, if he tries to help or if he tries to run, I'm still hidden, right?

MATT: As far as you know, yeah.

LIAM: Yeah, so I'm gonna fucking throw a knife at him if he does anything.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I'm gonna cast Hunter's Mark on the guy behind.

MATT: Okay, got it.

TRAVIS: Keep one alive, I want to know where our two principals are.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: “Keep one alive.”

MATT: All right. Hunter's Mark on that fellow there.

TALIESIN: And keeping an eye on the hawks.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Eagle.

MATT: You need one over there. Grog, your round of retribution is up. Pike, you wanna do anything?

ASHLEY: Uh… No, I'm gonna hold.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Oh, it's my turn again?

MATT: Yep.

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: More tattoos for twiddly-fuck, Suda. Wait. No. I want to bullrush Suda and drive him back towards the pit.

MARISHA: Yes, yes!

TRAVIS: The pit.

LAURA: Yeah! Pit of despair!

SAM: That is the correct answer.

(laughing)

LAURA: The pit of despair.

MATT: Haven't bullrushed in a while, okay. Make sure--

TALIESIN: I forgot that was a property.

MATT: Yeah, man...

(jumbled excited chatter)

TRAVIS: It might be, I think it's like 30 feet, I can't remember. Or maybe it's 20, I can't remember.

MATT: It's a little less than that, we'll see.

TRAVIS: Oh, is it?

MATT: We'll see. At least you made it interesting. So shoving a creature, you can… Shove it…

LAURA: 9,700 feet, specifically.

MATT: All of them, all the feet.

SAM: Yeah, I mean, maybe it's 15 feet, but he doesn't know numbers, so…

MATT: It's strength. Okay, it's strength athletics check contested by his athletics or acrobatics. You push him five feet away from you, or prone.

MARISHA: Five feet?

LAURA: Or prone, prone is good.

MARISHA: Prone, and then you could–

TRAVIS: Drag him.

ASHLEY: Drag him.

MATT: You could try and shove him out, you could grapple and try to drag him with you.

TRAVIS: I'd like to do that.

MATT: Okay. (laughing) So go ahead and make an–

TRAVIS: Athletics check?

MATT: Athletics check, yeah. That's when I roll a natural one. That would be when I do it.

TRAVIS: Brilliant.

MATT: Of course.

TRAVIS: 'Cause that was a 12.

MATT: Okay. And with that, you bring the hammer back, like you're gonna go ahead and slam it into his face, and instead you reach down by underneath the ankle, and you just flip him onto his back. As he's there, slammed onto the ground, the hard, kind of packed dirt of the roadway that leads into the western side of Westruun, are you gonna attempt to go for a grapple, then?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: All righty. As he is on the ground, I will go ahead and allow advantage on this attempt. So for your second strike on this, roll another athletics check, with an advantage. Because he is on the ground.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: Yeah, no, you got him.

(laughing)

ASHLEY: Bye-bye!

MATT: So you can drag him at half your movement speed.

TRAVIS: So 25 feet?

MARISHA: Oh my god, yes. Oh my god.

SAM: Let's count.

MARISHA: Let's count!

MATT: So that's five, 10, 15, 20, 25.

(cheering)

LAURA: Kick him, kick him!

LIAM: Oh, the tension! The drama!

TALIESIN: You can let him stand before the chasm.

MARISHA: Just…

MATT: Especially dragging him through–

LIAM: This! Is! Westruun!

TRAVIS: Don't say it!

(laughing)

MATT: The other guy next to him, holding the hand axe, is watching you drag him off and he's just like… (grunts) and unleashes a–

MARISHA: Fucking asshole.

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: Yeah, go go go!

LIAM: I call it, I go for it, and I'm hidden. I have advantage and all that shit.

ALL: Oh!

(laughing)

LIAM: 28, 29…

LAURA: 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

LIAM: 29, yep. Okay, good one.

LAURA: Oh my god, those are so many!

LIAM: Five, 10, 15…

ASHLEY: I'm gonna cast Sanctuary on Grog.

LIAM: 25, 25 doubled is 50.

LAURA: 50!

LIAM: 56, 56.

SAM: 56?

MATT: It's not a reaction, though, it's a bonus action.

ASHLEY: Got it. Never mind.

LIAM: 56, and I would like to use my bonus action to hide.

(laughing)

MATT: All right… Okay, yeah. Usually, your bonus action, you've already used your turn to hold your action.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: In theory.

LIAM: Whatever you want, whatever you want.

MATT: I'll say you're not hidden right now. Usually it's, you have to… The bonus action is used on your turn, and the holding your action is kind of that one thing that keeps over, so…

LIAM: Love it.

MATT: But as he goes forward, the dagger sinks right into his sternum and he kind of… (grunts) and, still using his momentum, goes forward. As you're dragging it, it's gonna go two strikes against you. Uh… 13.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: And 15.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: Just both axes do strike and hit you, but one of them hits the shoulder armor on the back of your shoulder, kind of cracks part of the bone and just streaks off the metal. The other one comes down and hits you in the back of the Belt of Dwarvenkind. You feel a little sink of pain as it kind of cuts through some of the leather, but even the belt itself deflects most of the attack.

TRAVIS: I look over and say, “Sit down, son, before you hurt yourself.” (laughing)

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

(laughing)

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: It's a one.

(laughing)

MATT: He rolled a 20, so, yeah.

(laughing)

LIAM: He'd have a really witty comeback if he didn't have a dagger in his sternum at the moment.

MATT: Yeah. (laughing) He's a little distracted at the moment. All right, so, that being said, the guy who's on the ground now– any of you guys wanna do anything at this point?

LAURA: I'll shoot an arrow at the other guy standing there.

LIAM: Finish him off.

MARISHA: Am I back to town yet?

MATT: Not yet. This is only six seconds. This is–

MARISHA: It takes a while.

LAURA: 23?

MATT: 23 it is. Roll damage, with Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Hunter's Mark and sneak attack.

MATT: Yes, because he cannot see you. He's unaware of your presence.

TALIESIN: God, we're mean.

LIAM: Efficient.

TALIESIN: Efficient.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: That's the first arrow.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh, that was so close! 14.

MATT: 14. It misses. It's okay, though, I was going to let you roll the second anyway. 21, the arrow strikes him right through the throat, and he just (gurgles and chokes) and grasps for his throat, gurgling before he falls to his knees and slumps into the ground, head to the side, kind of still clutching at it as he slowly, the life spills out of him. (laughing)

TALIESIN: He died as he lived, deeply unimpressed.

(laughing)

MATT: The other guy gets up, though, and he's going to use action trying to break the grapple. That is going to be a–

LAURA: Fail!

MARISHA: Come on, Grog. Come on, Grog!

MATT: 16.

TRAVIS: Misses.

(laughing)

MATT: It's contested with your athletics.

TRAVIS: Oh. And I have to roll an athletics check?

MATT: Yeah. You are raging, so technically you have advantage on it.

TRAVIS: That's pretty good. I'll take the 18. Athletics 26.

MATT: Yeah, he's still grappled, he can't do anything on that. It's your turn.

TALIESIN: He's wriggling!

TRAVIS: It's my turn? Well, I look to him and I say, “I will let you fly from here if you answer this question. Is Kevdak or Zanror in the city?”

MATT: Make a persuasion check. No, this would be intimidation. Intimidation, not persuasion.

LIAM: This is how Goliaths prom dance.

TRAVIS: Uh, eight.

MATT: Eight?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

(laughing)

MATT: Okay, as you're holding him there, he goes, “You'll find out, won't you?”

TRAVIS: I take his neck and I smash my head into his nose.

MATT: It just breaks and crumbles, his face is partially caved in, and you can see blood just running rapidly out of his nostrils where his bones were.

TRAVIS: “You won't be there to watch my discovery. Are they in the city?”

MATT: “Yeah, they're waiting for you.”

TRAVIS: “Good, I'll let you fly now.” And I kick him into the pit.

(laughing)

MARISHA: Whee!

MATT: All right, I'll say as you use your movement to push forward, go ahead and make your athletics check.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: And with that, he– (mimics fight sounds) Reaching out, grasps, catches the very edge of the ledge behind him, and the rock just breaks. (laughing) “No!” He vanishes, screaming, into the pit below as you step forward and look over. What little glint of daylight even makes the bottom area, 'cause it's far out of your range for dark vision, you just see enough of a movement on the bottom, and then no movement whatsoever.

TALIESIN: You Wile E. Coyote'd that guy!

LAURA: Oh, man.

TRAVIS: You all right down there? (laughing) No answer.

ALL: Yay!

LIAM: And scene.

MATT: You've made it–

MARISHA: I'm looking for Scanlan, too, by the way. Kind of keeping an eye out for Scanlan.

MATT: Perception check.

MARISHA: Uh, 23.

MATT: 23, okay. The second time. As you're glancing through, you see no sign of Scanlan. You do see now that… There are small groups of these clan individuals are now pulling out of homes various denizens of Westruun and pulling them towards the center of town. They're screaming and kicking, you know, or some of them just aren't putting up a fight because they have no way to, and they're just pulling them, almost like shields, to the center of town. It seems like they…

MARISHA: Have a plan.

MATT: Have a plan.

TALIESIN: Shit. I don't know that.

MARISHA: I haul ass back.

MATT: Heading back.

MARISHA: Do I see them, do I see the group? We've cleared the area, more or less, yeah?

MATT: I mean, the area where they are, as you glance back? Yeah, there doesn't appear to be any current set. Whoever was set to go to that side of the gate to check it out–

MARISHA: Has been hit?

MATT: Has not returned.

MARISHA: Sure.

TALIESIN: Can I turn back into a crow, or do you need, do I need to–

MARISHA: I have to cast that on you.

TALIESIN: But it's new casting, it's not just the same casting?

MARISHA: Correct. I can't drop it in and out.

TALIESIN: Okay, good.

MATT: So you're heading back?

MARISHA: I head back.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, me?

MATT: Yes. So–

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

MATT: As some time has passed, you guys have waited it out.

MARISHA: I'm looking for Scanlan on my way back, by the way.

MATT: Yeah. You are currently hunkered down with Kaylee, Dr. Dranzel, and this cluster of nine survivors. You've managed to parry off one incursion of these herd members within the temple. The barricaded door is still slightly ajar, as closing it would make quite a bit of noise.

SAM: Mm-hmm.

MATT: What are you planning to do?

SAM: (sighs) I mean, I have to get these people out of the city, I guess. So, they know the location of the entrance to the sewers, correct?

MATT: Kaylee had said that she knew, yeah.

SAM: All right, well then, I'm just going to… Shit. Do I know that the Goliaths were working with orcs at all, or… Was it just Goliaths, is it–

MATT: Well, no. From what you've heard from when… When Grog was interrogating the first member of the herd that you guys found on your way south through Westruun, there– it was a largely Goliath herd that had been challenged by and then defeated another clan and then absorbed them, and the other clan involved a lot more varying races and specialities. There were half-orcs, there were some kind of wild elves that were part of the crew, and a lot of the brigand humans. It was very much kind of like just– defeated their leader, took in the others because their choice was to either die or join.

SAM: Mm-hmm.

MATT: And as such, it has grown to this much more mammoth-sized roving herd.

SAM: I don't remember the name of that herd or anything, right? Or what they looked like. But they were motley, and they involved half-orcs and things.

MATT: There were a couple half-orcs, there were a few humans that were, like, I think you saw one wild elf, and then mostly Goliaths, based around the center of the Margrave's estate.

SAM: Okay. All right. Uh, well, we're, I tell the people, there's nine people, right?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Plus Me, Kaylee and Doctor? Uh, all right, well, I gather the people around and I say, “We're going to be moving through the city rather fast. In case we are spotted, I need to hide you people, or make you not a target, so I'm going to disguise you all as a band of irritable half-orcs and grotesque humans and the like using Seeming. And just look ornery, and look mean, and if you are approached, just sort of spit and kick the dirt and look pissy. And we'll go.”

MATT: Make a performance check.

SAM: A performance check?

MATT: In showing them and guiding them–

SAM: Oh, I can demonstrate it for them. Yes, with my acting abilities. (laughing) Okay, I'm such a good performer. I'm not even gonna look. Taliesin, what did I roll?

TALIESIN: Um, well, uh, you're doing okay. It's okay, you– with your performance bonus, that's a 20.

SAM: Okay, good.

(laughing)

MATT: You take a moment to show, like, some guttural snarls, teach a few odd, you know, curse words in orcish that you learned through your travels.

SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, just some vocal warm-ups, you know, when you wanna get deep, (growls) everyone try. (growls) That's good, that's good, that's good. Work on that.

MATT: You all gather up, along with Dranzel and Kaylee, who looks kind of suspicious at what you're attempting, she's like, “What exactly are you trying to do here?”

SAM: I'm just trying to keep us safe and get these people to the sewers. You know the way out of the city, don't you?

MATT: “Aye, I can show you.”

SAM: All right. Do you have weapons, can you protect yourself? Are you okay?

MATT: “I can protect myself. Don't worry, Scanlan.”

SAM: I'm just worried, I have to worry about you, I will always be worried about you. I'm sorry.

MATT: “You'll always be disappointed to find that I can take care of myself.”

SAM: No, I won't be disappointed at all. In fact, that makes me quite happy.

MATT: “Good, can we be off then?”

SAM: Well, all right. Okay, as long as you're happy, I'm happy.

MATT: “All right.”

SAM: Listen, I'm sorry, it's just– (laughing) I never get to see you, and I know we're in a rush here and everything. You can't, listen, you can't hate away me being your father, all right? I will always be the guy, no matter how much you curse my name and wish I was not part of you, my blood is inside of you–

LAURA: Ew.

SAM: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, people, but, you know, I care about you. All right?

MATT: “All right, it's not going to stop me from trying to hate you away, but… I get what you're saying. Well, do your trick.”

SAM: Okay. So I cast Seeming on the lot, and I make a few orcs and a few humans.

MATT: Any number of creatures within 30 feet of you. So, all of these Westruun peasant folk, yourself, Dr. Dranzel, and Kaylee all of a sudden become, to varying sized degrees–

SAM: I can make people a foot taller.

MATT: Taller, yeah, so like, they can be somewhat larger. You're still– You guys are still tiny little goblinoid half-orcs but it gives a visual perspective, based on what you've seen of this troop, and everyone kind of looks at themselves, looking at the back of their hands. There's this one kind of younger man in his mid-teens, he's like, “This is amazing!” (grunts) And they're also making the noises at each other, like for a brief moment, all of the fear subsides as they're, for the moment, getting into the play of acting like a half-orc, and then they all get serious again and look to you and Kaylee and Kaylee goes, “All right then, follow me.”

SAM: She's so good!

MATT: Slinks out the door, looks back and forth for a moment. Leans back in. “Coast is clear.” She nods. You see a troop of about… It would be 12 half-orc looking barbarians of varying aggressive stances start pouring out of a broken temple and into the street.

MARISHA: I swoop down a little closer.

MATT: They're heading–

SAM: And attack us!

(laughing)

MATT: I'm waiting to see!

MARISHA: Tippi Hedren. Caw!

LIAM: Her earth elemental drop…

(laughing)

TRAVIS: Super!

ASHLEY: Tails in the hole!

MARISHA: Can I tell that it's Scanlan and crew?

MATT: No. You have no idea. It's very believable. It's very believable. And you see this roving band of half-orcs now that are heading southward of the town in a cluster.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: They're like, jumping from one alleyway to another, and they're heading kind of southwest.

MARISHA: Am I like, “This is sporadic for a group of orcs,” or am I like, “Crazy fuckin' group of orcs!”

MATT: Make an insight check.

MATT: All right. Yeah, it'll work– I'm taking it back, I'm taking it back! Ooh, that was better, that was better!

TALIESIN: I felt bad.

(laughing)

LAURA: She bailed on her roll-

TALIESIN: No!

(laughing)

MARISHA: I didn't trust it when it was in the air. 26.

MATT: 26. Something is off about this troop, but you're uncertain what it is.

MARISHA: Okay. All right.

MATT: All right, you guys continue to move–

SAM: Continue to move, as fast as possible.

MATT: You move southward past one sequence of alleys to the next street, south, and Kaylee continues to usher you guys up to the edge of the alleyway. She looks back and forth. Nods, and you guys walk into the street again. As you step into the street, a voice goes, “Hey!” And Kaylee stops and whips around and looks in that direction, and you can see a group of three individuals, led by one Goliath and there is one kind of wild-looking elf who has, like, face-paint strewn across the front of their expression, with this long, almost dreadlocked, light brown hair, and what looks to be an older human with, like, streaks of black and grey, and this long, long beard that's tied off near the stomach. Bare-chested, with scars across the chest and they all kind of loom up as the Goliath steps up, pointing out, “We need you to the west gate!” And he kind of steps up. “Who's your watcher?”

SAM: I step forward and say, “He was killed by that gnome.”

MATT: “Gnome? Where'd you see it?”

SAM: Right in the center of town. He was a scary undead gnome, and he's roaming about. Kevdak sent us to search for him.”

MATT: Make a deception check.

(groans)

SAM: 19.

MATT: 19!

TALIESIN: So ugly.

MATT: “Center of town, aye? Well then, you should probably come with us, then. See if we can swarm it.”

SAM: If I may, if I may actually, (laughing) Kevdak said to follow the gnome, and he ran this way. I'm sorry, we have to follow Kevdak's orders.

GROUP: Ooooh…

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm sorry.

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Please, please, God!

MATT: Make another deception check with disadvantage.

MARISHA: Oh, no!

TRAVIS: Come on, baby.

LIAM: “Gotta get there before they run out of cucumber sandwiches!”

MARISHA: Come on, come on.

SAM: Same thing! 19.

MATT: He goes, “All right, we'll send a few more men your way.”

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck.

MATT: “Stay on that trail! If I see you again, and you ain't got a dead gnome in your hands, I'm gonna cut that head from its shoulders.”

SAM: All right, you have my word, we're gonna do– see ya later!

(laughing)

MATT: “Strange one." And the two of them head back as one of them just kind of keeps their distance behind you guys, following you as you travel. You dart into the next alley. Kaylee's like “ Come on, come on!” And as you guys duck into the shadows, everyone's pace quickens to the center of this alleyway, where there is… It seems like a large stack of partially emptied crates that contain broken pieces of furniture, it's essentially a small dump in the area. Nothing food or, you know, refuse-wise, but there's definitely, like, this is a… A graveyard for broken furniture. But in the center, there is a small, cylindrical stone protrusion, and a grate on top. And Kaylee runs up. “Quick, quick, help me get this open!” At which point–

SAM: Doctor?

MATT: Dr. Dranzel comes forward and goes, “Let me take care of this.” Which is funny, cause Dr. Dranzel looks just like himself, but just all covered in… (laughing) face paint, you can't see his hat. It's… He's kind of enjoying this persona for a moment. He goes (spits, grunts) and strains as he pulls upward, straight. Natural 20!

(cheers)

TALIESIN: Does he strain?

MATT: Throws it aside–

SAM: Everyone can beat doors but us.

(laughing)

MATT: “And don't you forget it! So, inside?”

SAM: Yes, go, go, go.

MATT: And they all start climbing in. Dranzel and Kaylee are helping get the peasants down inside first, at which point the one that was following you guys turns the corner in the alleyway and starts approaching from behind. This is the guy with the long black and grey beard. “You, where are you going?”

SAM: That gnome again. One of us saw him go down this sewer. We're following.

MATT: “I'm gonna have to go back and report this. I don't trust it.”

SAM: Hold on one second! And I'm gonna cast Hold Person on him.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Get it, get it, get it Scanlan! Get it!

MATT: Natural 20 on his saving throw.

ALL: Oh, no!

MATT: As he turns around, and he stops for a second, looks over his shoulder. “Oh, you gotta be kidding me, we got–” At which point Kaylee reaches out with her hand and let's see if this works or not. Five, eight…

LAURA: So many dice!

MATT: As he turns around and goes to walk away, he (laughing) falls face first asleep on the ground on the outside of the alleyway. Just, (thuds) halfway in the sun of the main thoroughfare. Kaylee runs up real fast and grabs his ankles and drags him.

SAM: I go to help!

MATT: “Go, go, go!”

SAM: I don't know the ways through the sewers! You have to go lead them, not me!

MATT: (sighs) She drops the leg down.

SAM: I start dragging him.

MATT: You guys start dragging him off the side, and you guys quickly go, dart in. As you all jump inside, Dranzel grabs the grate top. He gets down behind it–

SAM: Right before he closes it, I step out. I step out and I say, “Take them to safety. Bring them outside the city. Hide, stay safe.”

MATT: “All right. Same goes for you, Scanlan.”

SAM: Well, I'll do my best.

MATT: “Yeah you will.” And he pulls it down, screws it into place, to where it feels kind of taut, and you are now on your own outside of this area with a sleeping individual as his snoring slowly subsides. He starts rousing from his slumber about a minute later. Rubbing his chin. What do you do?

SAM: While he was still asleep, I was booking it towards the western gate, away from him.

MATT: Stealth check.

SAM: 18.

MATT: Okay. All right, so the rest of you guys, at this point in time, what's your plan?

TALIESIN: Guys, I'm heading in towards the city. Do we have a report yet? Keyleth?

LAURA: I'm getting nervous about Scanlan.

MARISHA: Can I hear him? Am I close enough by yet?

MATT: I'd say by now you've returned in raven form, you can hear him over the earpiece.

LIAM: And it's been how long since we've seen him since he went in?

MATT: Since Scanlan went in, I'd say–

LIAM: Since the bells.

MATT: Since the bells, it's been about… Oh, man, about ten minutes.

LIAM: We've got to go in.

LAURA: We should've seen him by now.

MARISHA: I come down and I land on Percy's shoulder. (caws)

SAM: Not that again.

(laughing)

MARISHA: And then I–

TALIESIN: Someone fell down a well?

(laughing)

MARISHA: I come out of raven form.

TALIESIN: Not on my shoulder.

MARISHA: Not on his, well, maybe I kind of like slide off. Sorry! Sorry.

TALIESIN: What did you see? Report, report!

MARISHA: Okay. They are ripping all of the townspeople out of their houses. It looks like they have their own counter plan for a situation like this. There was also a band of very strange orcs heading this direction, they were acting strangely, I don't trust it. We can either get out ahead of them, or try and wait and see if…

LIAM: Were they headed this way?

MARISHA: They were headed this way.

LIAM: We should probably move then.

LAURA: Did you see Scanlan?

MARISHA: Then we should– I did not see Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Let's head towards the center of town.

LAURA: They might have him held prisoner.

MARISHA: They might have him held prisoner.

LIAM: Why didn't we give a gatestone? We should always give the gnome a gatestone.

LAURA: Because we're fucking morons!

MARISHA: I didn't know he was going to go that far!

LAURA: I thought he was just going to the gate.

LIAM: Every time, that's the thing, okay? Gate stone to the Scanlan.

TALIESIN: I promise when this is over, I will surgically implant it in him.

MARISHA: Scanlan, can you– Scanlan, can you hear us at all?

TALIESIN: Hello?

TRAVIS: Anything?

LIAM: We just gotta go in.

MARISHA: Dammit!

TALIESIN: I'm gonna start making my way on the rooftops towards the center of the town, I'm like “I'm heading in, I'm keeping to the roof, if I'm going to take any shots I'll try and take them quietly.”

LAURA: I fly up and I– I go along the roofline with him. I fly up on the broom, and then I land on the rooftop and stealth.

MATT: Okay. It's at this point in time you see the two giant eagles, the ones that took Keyleth off earlier. As you come up on your broom, it kind of sees you. (screech)

TALIESIN: Oh, I've been watching those things.

MATT: Right. And as you're having this discussion, they notice up her float up and kind of see you guys moving in towards the city. One of them just turns around, heads back to the center of town.

LAURA: Eh, shitballs.

MATT: Another one's taking a cheap shot at you. Towards you. Roll initiative. Everybody who's gonna have anything to do with this right now.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm getting in on this shit, too.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: How far away from our group are they?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: They're probably a good–

LIAM: Way up high in the sky on this one?

MARISHA: Are we trying to get this–

MATT: We're talking about 100 to 150 feet up, comparatively.

MARISHA: Are we trying to get this eagle? Is that what we're trying–

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: It's trying to kill me.

TALIESIN: 19.

MARISHA: Yeah, can I get in on that as well?

MATT: Yeah, roll initiative. All right, so...?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24, Jesus. And 19?

TALIESIN: 19.

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: Nice!

ASHLEY: Yeah, man!

MATT: (sneezes) Sorry, what did you get?

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: 18, all right.

LAURA: Sarenrae blesses you.

TRAVIS: 17.

MARISHA: 12 for Keyleth.

MATT: All right. All right. All right, Vex, as the eagle swoops in, you have a brief moment where it's coming at you. You can go ahead and make your shots at it or whatever you wanna do this round. What do you want to do?

LAURA: How– if I, if I land on the ground and shoot at it, will it be within range?

MATT: At the speed it's going, you're not gonna be able to get back on the ground this round unless you spend your whole round getting there.

LAURA: Then I shoot at it from the air.

MATT: Okay, so two shots at a disadvantage.

LAURA: Uh, 25 on the first.

MATT: On the first, all righty, that hits.

LAURA: Okay. 17 on the first hit.

MATT: 17 damage?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And 24 on the second hit.

TRAVIS: Dang, girl.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Uh, 13 on the second hit.

MATT: Okay, as you, this is with a disadvantage, right?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: As you release the first arrow, wings are up, giant sharp beak extended, its claws in the air, the arrow sinks into its body, but it still kind of just shakes it off, continuing going into a further dive toward you, its wings outward.

LAURA: Fucker!

MATT: The second arrow, the second arrow strikes at the side of the face, kinda scrapes across and embeds in front of its winged shoulder. At which point, its form goes (whooshing noise) into what you see to be a female elven form (gasps) and then just drops straight down for 100 feet.

TALIESIN: Into the pit? Into the pit?

MATT: Uh, no, this is more inside the city right now.

LIAM: Damn.

LAURA: But she was 250 feet up!

MATT: That turned out to be about 100 feet up.

LIAM: That still sounds pretty bad!

MARISHA: Really bad.

LIAM: I don't wanna drop from…

TRAVIS: It's like softball, right? I'm just waiting.

MATT: You guys watch as she just goes (falling sound, thud) (laughing) Like, there's a little–

LAURA: Oh, no. A little elf puddle?

TALIESIN: Is that other one still booking?

MATT: The other one's still booking.

TALIESIN: Out of Bad News range?

MATT: Uh, no, still within Bad News range.

ASHLEY: Take the shot.

LAURA: Do it, Percy!

TALIESIN: I'm gonna, I'm gonna, not only am I gonna take a shot–

TRAVIS: Gonna ring that bell, are you?

TALIESIN: I'm gonna take a, gonna take a wing shot.

MARISHA: Keyleth runs towards the girl who fell.

LAURA: Good job, good job, guys.

MATT: So you start heading in that direction.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Taking your two shots.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna do a ring shot, we'll see what happens.

TRAVIS: If you miss, we move.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, that's 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TALIESIN: This is gonna suck for her. Here we go.

(explosion noise)

LAURA: Really loud–

MATT: Loud, echoing blasts–

TALIESIN: They knew we were coming already.

MATT: Echoing through the city.

TALIESIN: They're already gathering people in the center of town. A little late now. We kill a bunch of them, oh God, that's awful.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's pretty bad.

TALIESIN: Uh, 13 points of piercing damage.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And she also has to make a strength saving throw.

MATT: Uh, that is gonna be a…

TALIESIN: 19?

MATT: Not going to beat that. 12.

TALIESIN: I think she– It says she gets knocked prone, so I don't know what you want to call that for something flying, but–

MATT: That's, she's falling now.

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: And so she's falling, you hit her, one of the wings and she begins plummeting downward, not able to gather air at the moment underneath the wings. Are you taking your second shot?

TALIESIN: Uh, sure, I'll just take, and for this one, I'm gonna be an asshole and just take a sharpshooter shot.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And I'll use the big die!

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Trade up. Uh, that's a–

MATT: I'll say before you commit, I'll say this has disadvantage because it went from flying at a smooth pace to plummeting and you have to quickly–

TALIESIN: I had to reload in the middle, so like– Yeah. I'm, like, skeet shooting here.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Ugh. That's a, I'm gonna miss. That's like a five to hit, so that… That's 12.

MATT: 12 just hits. (gasps) Giant eagle AC is not that great, man!

TALIESIN: That's so sad! Oh God, I feel bad now! (laughing)

LAURA: 12?

MATT: Giant eagle doesn't have a crazy AC.

TALIESIN: That, oh man, I really feel–

MATT: It's more of a travel form, it's not meant for…

MARISHA: Fighting.

MATT: You know, main fighting. The one that was going for you is just 'cause you were the one that was nearest to it. It wasn't expecting a hail of arrows in its face.

TALIESIN: 29 points of damage.

MATT: And with that, you see it falls an eagle, and then (whooshing noise) into a person, it falls– (laughing) and disappear behind the skyline of the building of Westruun that block your view of the center of town.

TALIESIN: I got a grit point back. Well, they don't know who's coming, at least.

ASHLEY: Are we close enough to loot that first body?

MATT: Sure, you guys–

MARISHA: Well, I was headed that way.

ASHLEY: We're headed that way.

MATT: You guys then–

TALIESIN: I'm staying on the roof.

MATT: Moving around the chasm you created, you head inside the western gate of Westruun at this point.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait, well, oh, I'm headed to the body still? It's inside the gate?

MATT: Yeah. Yeah, it fell inside the gate of the city. You approach, and it's a rough scene. Fell on, like, the head and the shoulder. The rest of the body's kind of–

LAURA: Ew!

MATT: Accordioned in.

MARISHA: I look at the body. Does it appear to be any druid related to the Ashari clan?

MATT: Looking it over, make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Figure out which end is up first.

MARISHA: I need a really good check. My investigation's not very good.

SAM: It's your dad!

TALIESIN: Oh!

(laughing)

MARISHA: 20.

MATT: 20. You take a quick glance over, checking where any ceremonial markings of the Ashari are, none. This individual appears to be more of a primal-based Druidic talent. There are tattoos, pretty basic, various animal totems that are inscribed on the body. You're familiar with this form of druidic magic. It's a less-refined version of what the Ashari people learn and teach.

MARISHA: Gotcha.

MATT: But yeah, there's no inclination this is a member of the Ashari.

MARISHA: Okay. So, is there anything good on her?

MATT: There is a… A soaked set of leather armor. (chuckles)

TRAVIS: Soaked in what?

MARISHA: Non-magical?

MATT: Non-magical, from what you can gather.

SAM: Pee.

MATT: And what looks to be a shattered quarter-staff that may have been landed on. (groans) Beyond that, you're gonna have to get sifting through the remains, it's not gonna be a fun experience for what little you may gather.

MARISHA: I'll let it go.

LIAM: You gonna start harvesting?

MARISHA: I'll let it go.

(laughing)

MATT: “Start harvesting.”

TRAVIS: She made her choice.

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Well, I'm gonna start rooftopping towards the center. If I see anything interesting going on in the city, I wanna stop and investigate.

LAURA: Ditto!

MATT: Sneaking from rooftop to rooftop?

TALIESIN: If I can, can I do a bit of– I'm gonna do that, for sure. Can I use acrobatics?

MATT: This more of a-- this isn't acrobatics, this is more of a jump. Because there are large, large city street gaps that are like 25 to 30 feet.

LAURA: What about parkouring?

TALIESIN: But if I can parkour it, I can find, I wanna be able to…

MARISHA: Parkour, parkour!

TALIESIN: I wanna try and be smart about it and find it any way I can make it.

MATT: Right, make an acrobatics check.

TALIESIN: An acrobatics check? Thank you.

SAM: Amateur Spider-man.

LAURA: Can I join in? I was gonna join in. Up there.

MATT: Do you want to get off your broom and do that?

LAURA: That was the thing, yeah, I was gonna fly up on the broom and land on the roofs and then–

MATT: Gotcha. Yeah, so you go ahead and you get up with him and you can go– the two of you can start, like, parkouring off the rooftop.

LIAM: There's a mechanical engineer on the roof.

(laughing)

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 23?

SAM: (screams)

MATT: You guys make it a couple of streets before you reach a point where this block does, 'cause the main street intersects with another main street that goes southward and the gap is about 30 feet to jump across and you know from experience that you couldn't do that with a regular jump.

TALIESIN: I've got an idea. If you give me the broom, I'll just hold on and plant me down if we see anything. We'll just keep low by the roof.

(laughing)

LAURA: Can't you just sit on the broom with me?

LIAM: What is going on, are Grog and Pike and I just supposed to stand over here by the gate? Are you guys gonna head off?

MARISHA: We have a plan.

TALIESIN: I thought we were going in. We're heading into the city–

LAURA: I thought we were all going in.

MARISHA: I mean, we had a plan, and then we didn't have a plan, so we have like…

LIAM: We're going seven different directions.

MATT: You look up as you see, suddenly glance overhead, a shadow from one rooftop to another. Make a perception check.

SAM: Uh, 18.

TALIESIN: It's Batman!

SAM: 18.

MATT: You glance up and you see the dangling, kicking feet of Percy underneath a broom that just (wooshing noise) across the top of that.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: I didn't know there was room on there!

SAM: They're traveling, yes?

MATT: Yeah, they're traveling back inward to the city.

SAM: All right. Well, that's good. I can't, I probably can't catch up. I'm just gonna keep hoofing it.

LAURA: Wait, but the earrings!

SAM: Oh wait, I can hear, yes, yes! Ooh! (laughing) Thank you, I forgot about that! Uh, yeah. Hey, hi, oi, guys, oi, oi.

LAURA: Scanlan!

SAM: Oi, oi. How's it going? Did my plan work?

MARISHA: I don't know, did your plan work?

TALIESIN: What was your plan?

SAM: My plan was to send all the Goliaths, all of them, out through the main gate. Did they all come through the main gate?

ALL: No.

LAURA: No, definitely not.

LIAM: If there was only six, it worked.

MARISHA: Scanlan, it appears they are doubling down in the center of the town. Do you have any idea on why they would be doing this?

SAM: Well, I don't know, they're very perceptive. I may have alerted all of them to our presence.

MARISHA: Oh, fantastic.

SAM: But… It was a distraction.

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: And in a sense, that was my mission, so–

TALIESIN: A distraction from what?

LAURA: You know what, we killed nine of them.

MARISHA: A distraction from their terrible, terrible lives.

TRAVIS: Good job, Scanlan, mission accomplished.

SAM: Yes, thank you, thank you.

ASHLEY: Hey Scanlan, I'm glad you're okay.

SAM: Oh, thanks, is that Pike?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

SAM: Oh, hi, Pike!

ASHLEY: Hi!

SAM: Oh, how's it going out there?

ASHLEY: Oh, it's good, it's good–

TALIESIN: Can we do this–

SAM: Okay, okay, okay. What should I do, where should I go, who should I kill?

LIAM: Stay put and let us come to you. What do you see around you?

MARISHA: Yeah, where are you?

SAM: Idiots on broomsticks flying around.

LAURA: Oh, shit, that's us!

MARISHA: All right. Can we all convene in an alley?

MATT: You do. You convene in an alley. Within the next few minutes, a little bit of a confusing telephone bit going back and forth, but you do eventually gather. At this time, you guys do hear what sounds like some voices shouting about a block and a half up the way.

LAURA: Shit.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Are there buildings?

SAM: Are we all together now?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: By the way, hi, hi, this is me.

LAURA: Oh my god, you don't even look like yourself.

SAM: I look pretty cool.

TRAVIS: It's so good to see you. We should get inside for a moment.

MARISHA: We should. Is there a wine cellar or door or something that we can beat in, or a window?

MATT: There are windows, you don't see a wine cellar in the immediate vicinity of this alleyway.

LIAM: I'll get it open quietly, I'm not gonna break anything!

TRAVIS: Can I look in the window first?

MATT: Yeah, you go ahead and glance in. Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: I see nothing. It's a two.

MATT: It is very dark. There's no light inside, and–

LAURA: What about our darkvision? Can we see anything in there?

MATT: No. Even if your darkvision, you guys see as well, there's nothing inside. The building appears to be vacant.

LIAM: Is it locked?

MATT: The window is locked. Very minor lock.

LIAM: Well, I just rolled a natural 20, so…

LAURA: You wasted it on a window?

MATT: That was the most deft unlocking you've ever done.

LIAM: I hit it like Fonzie. Yeah.

(laughing)

LAURA: We pop in the window.

MATT: Great. You guys all crawl inside of the room, and looking inside, you do notice that the… Some of the furniture is kind of tipped over, the front door, actually, that leads out to the main road, the south-facing road, the knob is broken off like someone just kicked the door in. And it looks like there were signs of a minor struggle, but there's no bloodshed from what you can see. Most of, if any, belongings that had any value have been taken. The place looks stripped of anything metallic. It looks like it's been pretty heavily ransacked inside here.

MARISHA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MARISHA: They were dragging everyone out of every available door, and dragging them to the city, the center of the city. Why?

TRAVIS: People shields. Meat shields.

MARISHA: Meat shields?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Right. Okay.

TRAVIS: So we go to them, and if we get too close, they slit all their throats. It's like basic Goliath logic.

LAURA: Lovely.

LIAM: So is maybe the one-on-one combat our only option at the moment?

MARISHA: Do we have any other option?

SAM: How many were there total? We don't know how many…

TRAVIS: Probably 30 to 40 now.

SAM: Oh, okay.

TALIESIN: Probably down to 20 or 30.

SAM: Well. Wait, there was 30 or 40 to start, and we killed nine of them?

TRAVIS: Remember, he said we were down to like 50. We killed, like, nine-ish.

SAM: Oh, so 40-ish. So two left.

LAURA: Six left, Grog, then, six?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like a thousand.

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Let's…

MARISHA: Okay. All right.

SAM: I've got a plan. I go to the center of town.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: I create a distraction.

(laughing)

LAURA: Seriously?

SAM: That's pretty much all my plans are, always.

TRAVIS: What time is it?

MATT: Right now, you're pushing early afternoon. It's probably, I'd say the equivalent of about 1, 1:30.

LAURA: Jeez.

TRAVIS: Perfect. Last question I have. Do we know where Wilhand's residence used to be?

MATT: You do, you would know very well. It's outside of town.

MATT: You spent a lot of your time–

TRAVIS: Outside or inside of town?

MATT: It's inside the town, but it's a little bit northwest of the center area. So it's closer to where a lot of the temples and the worship areas are, and there is a small park there that was across the way.

TALIESIN: That may be something useful.

MATT: It's a red brick building. It stands out against a lot of it, because it was built specifically to kind of be the small, gnomish hovel that was built buy his own hands.

TRAVIS: So when attacking, right, once you've given up your position, it loses its worth. So my suggestion would be that we move to approach from another vantage point, or we can just kick this thing off and I walk in. I'm fine either way.

MARISHA: All right, well… Are we nearby a sewer system? Scanlan, do you know?

SAM: Oh, I happen to know exactly where a sewer system is.

MARISHA: We can try and sewer cross town. Or we can just walk right in.

SAM: Where are we trying to get?

LAURA: To the center of town.

TRAVIS: We thought about seeing if maybe we could get to Wilhand's house.

SAM: Where is that, and why would we be there?

TRAVIS: Well, that's Pike's grandfather.

SAM: So I know, but does that provide us with some strategic advantage?

TRAVIS: No, but we might be able to see if he's all right.

TALIESIN: They've probably dragged him to the center of town by now.

MARISHA: How can we get through this? Go ahead, Pike.

ASHLEY: We could go to the center of town and check to see if he's there. After we take care of business… And then hopefully he's not there. I mean, he could provide a lot of help.

LAURA: Maybe we go to his house first. He's your grandfather.

TRAVIS: If we go to the center of town -

LAURA: It's all going down.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: How do we get out of this with the most - or sorry, with the least civilian casualties, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm not really thinking that far ahead.

MARISHA: Sure.

TALIESIN: We were supposed to also pick something up.

SAM: Yes, a two-story–

LAURA: We can do that after.

TALIESIN: Here's the thing.

SAM: Well, wait. The thing might help us, who knows?

LAURA: It was a red brick two-story home–

SAM: Near the fountain.

LAURA: With dark wood.

SAM: Wait–

LAURA: Near the fountain crossroads.

SAM: Pike, do you know this house?

TRAVIS: Doesn't that sound like the house that–

ASHLEY: That's Wilhand's house.

MATT: Wilhand's house is on the– in the temple district stands out because it's a small little, like, red brick area. The one that he's talking about is more of a classic kind of dark wood with red brick outside, like the way he described it was it's very colonial-style, but like with a brick base built around it.

TRAVIS: Is that not the leader of, the guy that runs the Westruun–

LAURA: That was Master Quall's house.

TRAVIS: Master Quall.

MATT: Master Quall was just the master. He's his own little–

TRAVIS: That's not that house.

MATT: No. The Margrave's house is the one that's in the town square, and that's where Kevdak apparently has taken as his homestead.

TRAVIS: Right, and that's not the description of that.

TALIESIN: So we either start this now, or we prepare. There are pluses and minuses to both thoughts.

SAM: They have a bunch of innocent people who they may just start killing.

MARISHA: Here's my question. If we wait, will they ever, theoretically, let them go? Or is it easier to just slit their throats?

TRAVIS: No.

MARISHA: Then we shouldn't wait.

TALIESIN: We shouldn't wait.

MARISHA: We shouldn't wait.

LAURA: Then we just do it.

TALIESIN: Those of us with distance, we make, we find positions around the square.

LAURA: We stealth around.

SAM: The second we start attacking, they will start killing, so…

LAURA: He walks in on his own, challenges Kevdak to a duel.

SAM: On your own?

TRAVIS: So it'll go like this. Everybody get high vantage points, so I walk in, I'm pretty sure if I call him out he'll step aside and we'll do this thing. If it starts going poorly, I leave it to your discretion.

TALIESIN: Or if other people start getting iffy with the civilians, we can start taking shots. I know I can drop a few before they do anything.

MARISHA: I've burned both of my wild shaping abilities for right now. Unless we wanted to take a brief rest to regain our thoughts.

TALIESIN: This is sort of a brief rest.

MARISHA: Is this considered, like, a short rest?

MATT: No, a short rest is like a half an hour to an hour of, like, intentional–

TRAVIS: We can afford it, we can take that.

MARISHA: A half hour?

LAURA: Will they start killing people?

TALIESIN: Not in half an hour.

TRAVIS: No, they won't do it for no reason. They don't even know where we are.

MARISHA: Yeah, 30 minutes is nothing in a hostage situation.

TRAVIS: Take a short rest if you want to.

MARISHA: All right, let's take a short rest and we'll finish fleshing out this plan.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Does anyone else need to heal up?

TALIESIN: I'm good.

MARISHA: I wanna burn a hit dice.

LAURA: I am too.

ASHLEY: I can--

LAURA: Yeah, but I don't want you to waste any spells.

LIAM: Save it.

LAURA: I can use a hit die.

TRAVIS: The Margrave house, when they were flying over in mist form, there was something that looked like it was red and smeared on the outside of the walls. Was that the Margrave house?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Are we close to the edge of town?

MATT: About, like, a five, six minute walk. A brisk jog, I should say. It's close, but it's not, like, right outside.

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's what I would say is my plan, if you feel like walking, we can point guard you from a distance and make sure if anyone tries to attack.

MARISHA: Well, we should try and probably have a few people on civilian duty as well, kind of like we did before.

TALIESIN: Yes. That would be perfect, if you're willing to… No, that's, that can't, you don't still have the house that you can summon, do you?

SAM: Of course I do.

TALIESIN: Can we put that door somewhere and start sending people, if we liberate them, to it?

SAM: Of course we can. However, it would have to be somewhere close to where the hostages are. They would definitely see their hostages jumping into a magical hole–

TALIESIN: We could put your magical hole inside of a building and send people into the building so that it's got, like, double cover.

MARISHA: And if anyone finds your magical hole, they can jump in it, or do they have to have permission?

SAM: By the way, so many jokes, so many jokes. (laughing) Resisting.

TALIESIN: You're being very good. Very firm on this one.

LIAM: What happens if you lure a Goliath and orc into the magical hole, do they get stuck in there?

SAM: I imagine they'll have a lovely chicken dinner.

MARISHA: Yeah, 'cause after 24 hours, they get kicked out.

LAURA: They can leave when they want.

LIAM: They can come and go as they please, so it's not like a roach motel.

LAURA: No.

SAM: Vex can capture one of them.

LAURA: I can.

(sighs)

TALIESIN: That's good to know.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: If we know the city this well, how far would you say is Wilhand's place from where we are now?

MATT: I'd say it's about…

TRAVIS: Mile and a half?

MATT: Yeah, about a 20, 25 minute walk north from where you are right now. It's a little ways… A little ways west of Noja's old store, and… Yeah, it's about 25 minutes.

TRAVIS: Would you like to go first and see if he's there?

ASHLEY: It's choosing between the people in town or–

TALIESIN: You don't have to.

MARISHA: You can send a couple of us to go check in.

TALIESIN: I grab the stone. Go check, come back–

SAM: Wait. I'm sorry, but we need Pike with us.

TALIESIN: She can go check, and she'll be back within 60 seconds.

SAM: She has to get there, she's the worst at stealth.

TALIESIN: That's very fair. But we can send someone and have them right back. I mean, it's not…

LAURA: What if she, what if we go there and we find him, and then what, you can pop back, but he's alone? You can't pop two people back with the stone.

LIAM: I'll go.

SAM: I can pop us back.

LIAM: We can send him back, and then I can get back on my own.

TRAVIS: You don't know where you're going.

LIAM: Pike, can you tell me how to get there?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LIAM: I've walked city streets that I've never been in before.

TALIESIN: We can start getting into our positions and then when you're done, you can join one of us.

MARISHA: What's gonna be the benefit of finding him before the fight, as opposed to after?

TALIESIN: That's fair. Well, unless they're holding him.

MARISHA: Unless they're holding him.

TALIESIN: But they wouldn't be holding him, because they don't expect us, they don't know it's us that's coming.

MARISHA: Well, then he's either safe in his house, or he's in the middle of the town square. Either of which–

TALIESIN: She has a fair point.

TRAVIS: I'm good either way.

SAM: We're okay.

LIAM: Also if we cut off the head of the snake, there's no issue.

TALIESIN: It doesn't matter.

TRAVIS: Let's do it, let's go towards–

ASHLEY: And he is a very powerful cleric, if we do find him. So it would be nice to have some extra help.

TALIESIN: He may already be there.

ASHLEY: And if he's-- I feel like we should go town, because that's a lot more people than one person.

SAM: Is his house near where we're going, or no?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: It's a wide arc, you have to go up and over to get to the center of town. The center of town's not, like, right center. It's kind of, like, north center.

MARISHA: I mean, I could mist there, and I could do something to get there faster.

TALIESIN: No, we're gonna need–

TRAVIS: You don't need to.

ASHLEY: We need your spells.

LAURA: Yeah, don't waste your spells.

TRAVIS: Look, let's just face this, wish each other good luck, and we'll meet in the middle.

MARISHA: Are we going to flank the entire city center?

TALIESIN: We're going to make this, it's a town square, if I recall. There's like a, they've got a barricade. Correct me if I'm wrong. They've got a section of the city, of the town, barricaded off.

MATT: Well, it's not so much a barricade more than they have short little barricades built in for, like, anti-cavalry and for any large, like, siege attempts or…

TALIESIN: So we can slowly, we can start to surround it. We can be stealthy and singular, we can keep in contact.

MARISHA: I can use Earth Elemental to glide and literally pop out right in the center of town and avoid everything.

TALIESIN: You could walk right in.

SAM: But you don't want them to see you.

MARISHA: I would be underground.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I just plan to walk right in.

SAM: And Grog, when you fight this person, if he agrees to this one-on-one combat, is it gonna be fists or a sword?

TRAVIS: I have no idea.

(laughing)

MARISHA: Grog, I guess my one concern is what's stopping them from slitting all of these people's throats at any drop of a second?

TRAVIS: A warrior's honor.

MARISHA: A warrior's honor?

TALIESIN: That's weird, but good enough for me.

MARISHA: And do you think you can evoke that?

TALIESIN: I guarantee it.

MARISHA: Men's Warehouse.

(laughing)

TRAVIS: Just crazy enough for it to work.

ASHLEY: You're gonna like the way you look! I guarantee it!

(laughing)

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: I leave it up to your artistic influences on where you go from here.

TALIESIN: Don't be afraid to call your friends if you need help.

MARISHA: If I'm Earth Elemental, I won't be able to speak, so I'll be relying on you.

TALIESIN: You'll be hearing on me.

MARISHA: I'll be hearing on you.

ASHLEY: I'm gonna go– I'm gonna stay with Grog.

MATT: Okay. Are you guys bee lining it, like straight through–

MARISHA: No, I was gonna say–

MATT: Or are you, like, arcing past Noja's place, or are you going by the Cobalt Reserve, or are you--

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: What's your plan?

MARISHA: Are we going for the element of surprise? Would it be better for me to Earth Elemental and blast out in the middle, or would it be better for me to flank with the rest of you?

LIAM: It's gonna go south if Kevdak sees any of us pop out of the windows. I think that Grog's right, he needs to go in alone. We need to be hidden–

LAURA: We need to flank and be completely stealthy.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: And if shit goes south, then we go in.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Is there anything we can give Grog to help him? Can't you bless him or something?

TRAVIS: I do have a question.

MATT: Yeah?

MARISHA: I can enhance his ability.

TRAVIS: Nah, never mind.

LIAM: Are you attuned out, maybe?

MARISHA: What were you gonna say?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I was gonna see if I should switch out the Gauntlets of Ogre Strength for these Bracers of Defense that give me plus two to my AC, but if I wear that, then it takes out my natural armor.

LIAM: What about–

MATT: No, it's not considered armor. Not actually wearing armor, it's designed for somebody who does not, so…

LIAM: Grog.

LAURA: Well, that's good.

LIAM: Grog! What if I lend you my boots? Which, when you put your heels together, will also help your armor out a bit, or help your chances of being hit. Helps me attack faster. You can give them back to me tomorrow.

MARISHA: And I can give you enhanced constitution.

TRAVIS: No. No. I've learned that my strength is with my friends and my friends have their own strengths. To each their own. I don't want you all handicapping yourself for me. I would like to change out my Bracers of Defense to get a plus two to my AC for the Gauntlets of Ogre Strength.

MATT: Okay. So your strength is now a 17. You take a plus two to your armor class.

TRAVIS: The AC goes to 21.

MATT: Correct.

TRAVIS: Okay. Because it goes to 17, my modifier is plus three.

SAM: Would you like some extra strength for your…

MARISHA: Yes, remember, Grog, that mine and Scanlan's strengths are in helping the rest of our friends and our fellow allies. So we can grant you enhanced abilities.

TRAVIS: Do you have to do it now? I would much rather you just did it on your own and maybe not tell me about it.

MARISHA: Well, I could do it ahead of time–

LAURA: Just do it!

TALIESIN: Just give him a big hug right now.

LIAM: Ix-nay on the elp-hay.

LAURA: Just hug him. Just hug him!

TALIESIN: I push her towards him.

LIAM: Give him a hug for good luck.

MARISHA: Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh, shit, what is this?

MARISHA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Hello.

MARISHA: We believe in you.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MARISHA: And I cast enhance ability, and I give him enhanced, or I could get him, like… I'm gonna give him Bear's Endurance, which gives him advantage on constitution checks and he gains an additional 2d6 temporary hit points.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll 2d6.

MARISHA: Me?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: Big money, no whammies! That's not great, six.

MATT: You have six temporary hit points, and you have advantage on constitution checks.

TRAVIS: Advantage on constitution–

MATT: Not saving throws. Constitution checks.

TRAVIS: Checks, okay.

MATT: There are no skills that are constitution-based.

MARISHA: Would it have been better to do strength?

MATT: When he rages, he gets advantage on strength anyway.

MARISHA: Oh, he already gets advantage on strength. Okay.

TALIESIN: He'll be okay.

MATT: But, you know, if it comes up.

TRAVIS: Well, now that we're done being all touchy-feely or whatever the hell that was–

SAM: Well, wait, wait, wait.

TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus.

SAM: So wait, sorry, it's just, I found this old joke book, I thought you might wanna hear this joke. And I pull out my… (laughing) Bull strength scroll.

TALIESIN: Oh, thank god.

SAM: And I'm gonna read him the bull strength scroll. Can I affect him with the plus five strength?

MATT: Well, the bull strength, as an ability, just gives him advantage on strength, which he already has.

SAM: Oh! I thought it was a plus five to strength, no?

MATT: You must've pulled those stats out of the old Pathfinder game.

SAM: Oh. I have had this for a long time. Well then, in that case, I'll just, I'll sing you a rousing song to put you on your way! (clears throat) ♫ The stars at night ♫ Are big and bright (clapping) ♫ Deep in the beard of Strongjaw ♫

(laughing)

MATT: Take your d10.

TRAVIS: Okay.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Aid.

MATT: Okay, and at what level?

ASHLEY: I'm gonna do fourth level.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: And I'm gonna cast it, I can cast it on three.

MATT: Three people, for +15.

ASHLEY: +15.

MATT: Who else do you choose?

ASHLEY: So I will choose… Vex. Scanlan, how many hit points are you? How many hits points do you have?

SAM: Uh… I'm okay.

TALIESIN: One of these two.

SAM: Never worry about me.

MARISHA: Does it stack with Grog's?

LAURA: Get Scanlan, Scanlan goes unconscious in combat a lot.

SAM: Never worry about me.

MARISHA: You can't do it multiple times.

ASHLEY: Scanlan?

SAM: Yes, my love.

ASHLEY: I would like to aid you as well.

SAM: I really, I don't need, I don't need any help, I'm fine.

MARISHA: Just shut up and take it, Scanlan.

SAM: Is there some sort of–

TALIESIN: Too late!

SAM: Is there some sort of ritual that we need to do together to make this happen?

ASHLEY: This happened so fast.

(laughing)

MATT: And as she says that, there's a blast of warm light across your chest that fades as she has already turned around. However, Vex, Grog, and Scanlan, you guys, your maximum hit points are increased by 15. And you get those 15 extra hit points for the next eight hours.

SAM: Great.

LAURA: Nice!

MATT: Not concentration. Anything else you want to cast?

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: No? Okay.

LAURA: I tap Grog on the shoulder and I flash him. (laughing) Go get it, soldier!

TRAVIS: I can't lose!

SAM: Wait, wait, wait!

(laughing)

TALIESIN: Don't you dare die happy.

SAM: Didn't we just talk about this?

LAURA: What?

SAM: Give him the fucking rock! The rock that he can bamf out of there with!

TALIESIN: It takes a minute.

SAM: So? It's something.

TALIESIN: A minute's a long time.

SAM: Oh, all right, forget it!

TRAVIS: I reach into my Bag of Holding and I pull out my trusty salt lick rock, and I kneel down to Pike. I say, “Hey, hold this for me, all right?”

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Just keep it safe, I don't like getting blood on it.

ASHLEY: But listen. I can't lose you twice in one day, okay?

TRAVIS: Oh, no, I'm not going anywhere. We're just going to meet some really bad folks and we're gonna set 'em straight.

ASHLEY: Okay. (laughing) Go get 'em, okay?

MARISHA: That was the cutest thing!

TRAVIS: Now, I walk out.

1:42:25

LAURA: Oh, God, no!

MATT: Are you guys following behind, or just letting him do his thing?

LAURA: We stealth, like–

MARISHA: We watch him leave.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MARISHA: And then we stealth.

MATT: Any other last-minute things you're gonna help Grog with? Or are we done?

TALIESIN: We're good.

MATT: Okay. Everyone's good?

MARISHA: He's pretty stacked.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: -Ish.

ASHLEY: We can stay close to him, though, right?

TALIESIN: I like that we managed to make, like, solving problems with violence into an ABC afternoon special, really.

MATT: Kind of, yeah. Remarkable. Uh, okay.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us so we can stealth.

MATT: All right. So, the rest of you, go ahead and make your stealth check.

MARISHA: Ooh!

MATT: Which direction are you traveling, Grog, by the way?

TRAVIS: I guess just towards the heart of town.

MATT: Just beelining it straight to the center?

TRAVIS: Not stopping.

MATT: Okay. All righty. So, stealth?

ASHLEY: 14.

SAM: Oh my god!

MATT: With the ten?

ASHLEY: What's that?

MATT: Plus ten.

ASHLEY: Oh! Then, 24!

SAM: Thank God.

LAURA: 29.

LIAM: 39.

MARISHA: 33.

TALIESIN: 34.

SAM: 21.

MATT: All right. Grog is not going stealthy, or are you just walking through?

TRAVIS: Just walking through.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: (hums exciting music)

MATT: As you guys follow suit, dodging from alley to alley, Grog, you step into the main roadway– okay, you want rooftop? You and Percy?

LAURA: Percy, are you going to the rooftop?

MATT: All right, both of you guys roll acrobatics checks, we'll just say as a continuation of this. Natural one?

ASHLEY: No, that was a seven.

LAURA: Was it?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: No, I think it was a one!

(laughing)

MATT: Nice try.

ASHLEY: That thing was so–

(laughing)

LAURA: It might have been a seven, but I thought it was a one.

MATT: Well, regardless, you guys get about 30 feet before (thud) (laughing) Vex, you suffer eight points of damage as you plummet off–

LAURA: Come on!

MATT: Of this, the second-story buildings, and land–

LAURA: I have a broom to get up to the top, you know!

MATT: I know, and unfortunately, your foot found one of those loose shingles, and you lost your grip on the broom, tumbled, landed, at which your broom then (thud) about two feet in front of you on the ground.

LAURA: I caught it. I didn't want it to–

TALIESIN: You are the shadow that stalks the guilty.

(laughing)

MATT: So you kind of look over your shoulder for a second. Keep marching forward. You get about four blocks before you see a group of four individuals, no Goliaths among them. It appears to be two humans, a male and a female, and one elf, and one halfling. They're all smeared and muddy streaks across the face. The halfling has the head completely shaved off and it has the two kind of lined scars over the top of the face to the back of the head. They all turn the corner and look over at you. Take a moment to kind of look for any sort of recognition. They look at each other and begin to walk forward, drawing their weapons.

TRAVIS: Oh, lads, lads, no need for that. I've traveled quite a long way. See, I'm part of a ranging party for Kevdak. It's very important that I see him. You see, we're family. Now, you can either take me to him, or I can drag you to him.

MATT: The elf kind of steps forward and pushes the others away. Draws these two thin short swords from the side. They look kind of jagged and chipped like they've seen quite a few battles. Leans forward and kind of puts one eye on you, leaning on the side as he approaches. “Kevdak, you say? Family, you say? I've not seen your face, nor the travels you've had with the herd. But you say family.”

TRAVIS: Don't make me repeat myself.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: (gasps) Natural 20!

MATT: The others behind draw their weapons, one of them pulls out this, like, long nasty double-headed great ax and kind of lets it down to the side and begins to step forward. The halfling draws this gnarled spiked-tip whip, then kind of like cracks it on the ground, begins stepping forward. The female to the left of the elf goes ahead and draws this long, thin rapier that almost has a curve to it and begins to point it forward as the elf takes the two blades and puts it out and stops the rest of them. He goes, “All right, family of Kevdak. If you're lying, it'll be fun to watch you scream as he tears the head from you. Walk to the front.”

TRAVIS: Lead the way.

MATT: “Walk to the front.”

TRAVIS: And I walk past them to the front.

MATT: All right. The four of them flank behind you, blades still drawn, and just slowly walk about ten feet to your–

TRAVIS: May I ask you, as I was approaching this city, I saw a dragon fly over. Picked up one who looked just like me and flew away. What's it like being the bitch of a dragon?

MATT: There's a long pause as you keep walking. And eventually the same elven voice pipes up and goes, “Well, I imagine the gnashing teeth of such a beast would be comparably painful as the gnashing tips of these blades if you don't shut your mouth, Goliath scum.”

TRAVIS: You'll be feeling the tips of those before I feel the tips of any teeth of dragons.

(laughing)

MATT: “Oh, there's many a teeth waiting for you where you walk, friend. Keep going. Your insolence amuses me." As you guys are kind of keeping back, I need everyone to make another stealth check.

LIAM: That guy tortures small animals, by the way.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Oh, 21.

SAM: 24.

LIAM: 39.

ASHLEY: 12?

LAURA: Plus 10?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

SAM: Ooh, that's our girl!

LAURA: 37.

MATT: All right. As you guys are stalking behind, there's a moment where you all duck into one of the alleyways and as Pike spins into the alley, the edge of her shoulder armor, being wider than her actual form, catches the edge of the building, causing this large (clang) sound, the sound of bending metal clanging against itself. At which point, the troop behind Grog immediately spins around. “Did you hear that? Is anyone following us?” And as you've kind of kept walking forward, you feel the point of a blade just kind of gently press into your lower back.

TRAVIS: Good lord, you're awful jumpy. See, when I was last with this herd, the mates that I ran around with weren't so quick to jump and hide behind their mother's skirts. Keep your attention focused on me, son. We've got important dealings to meet with.

MATT: "Keep walking." The blade pulls back. As you continue to step forward, you hear a little whisper behind you. And you kind of glance over and look as the halfling and the female with the hooked rapier both break off and begin heading back towards the alleyway.

LAURA: Perfect.

SAM: No problem.

MATT: So, as you guys continue to step forward, you guys now lurking in the alley kind of pull off into the shadow. Listening, you hear very, very light footsteps beginning to find their way in your direction.

LAURA: Can we wait until they come around the corner?

TALIESIN: I'm gonna continue– I'm gonna continue following Grog just–

SAM: Are we gonna wait and jump them? Or do you want me to stop them?

LIAM: We're all split, right?

MATT: You guys are all, are you guys divided into different groups?

SAM: No, we're all together.

LIAM: You're on a roof, you're on a–

LAURA: No, I'm not on a roof, I fell off the roof.

TALIESIN: I'm on a roof.

MATT: Yeah, Percy's up on a roof.

TALIESIN: I'm letting them know - I didn't want to interrupt that because it was fabulous, but… I've been trying to, like, keep everybody informed of what I've been seeing and just like, “two splitting off, they're heading towards there.” I'm gonna continue with Grog.

LAURA: I think we should lie in wait until they come around the corner, and then– (mimics choking sound)

TALIESIN: I'll count them down when they turn around.

LAURA: Okay, I'll wait to shoot an arrow until they come around the corner.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Two of them?

MATT: Two of them, yes.

TALIESIN: Two of them taking a turn, and I've described them.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I prep a Hold Person spell. Ready for when they turn the corner.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Now!

MATT: At this point, you now see the halfling kind of darts around, whip out on the side as the elf turns around the corner, rapier out with her hand in front of her. What are you guys doing?

LIAM: I wanna grab the elf and slit her throat.

(laughing)

LAURA: I'm shooting at the halfling. Two arrows at the halfling.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I go for-- you said you were taking the elf?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: I'm gonna go for the elf and cast Hold Person.

MATT: Okay. Uh, we'll say for the sake of you two, you both roll initiative.

MARISHA: 14. 14.

MATT: Okay. You go ahead and make your attack first.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: This is a surprise round. They don't expect to see you dart out of the side of the shadows. They're facing downward into the alley.

LIAM: Okay, uh… I'm going to use Luck, my last luck of the day. Okay. Oh, this attack, uh, 16.

MATT: 16, then? Uh, yeah, that–

LAURA: No, that's attack, that's a 21.

LIAM: 21, thanks.

MATT: Hits either way. Go for it.

LIAM: Uh… I don't want to be heard! (laughing) seven, nine, 10, 20, 30, 66.

TRAVIS: Jesus.

MATT: You grab her, pull her back, draw the blade across the throat. With a slight muffling sound, she begins to bleed out. Still fighting and tensing against your body.

MARISHA: Seeing that, I'll switch my spell to the halfling. (laughing) Not necessary on the elf anymore.

LIAM: Do I still have the bonus action left?

MATT: I'd say so.

LIAM: Yeah, I wanna shove that in her chest.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Uh, that is 27.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: And that is eight.

MATT: Eight damage?

LIAM: Plus I'll add poison to it, DC 15.

MATT: With a seven, no.

LIAM: Okay, so she takes… An additional… 12 points of poison damage.

MATT: With that, the blade pulses as the poison filters into the bloodstream through the sternum where the blade pierced. As you quietly hold her in place, she goes still and goes, yeah, goes limp in your arms. You, however, at this point, turn and cast Hold Person on the halfling?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: The halfling sees you jump out and just whisk her out of the alleyway, turns in that direction, and before it has a chance to react, as it pulls back with the whip to go in that direction, (noise) and just stays there, frozen in place.

LAURA: That's when I release my arrows.

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: Go, go.

MATT: You have advantage on these shots because the entity currently cannot -

LAURA: Eight, no, 28 for the first hit.

MATT: 28 for the first hit? Are you going, like, right up against it, or is this from a distance?

LAURA: This is from a distance.

MATT: Okay. So that hits.

LAURA: Uh, 29 for the second hit.

MATT: Both of those hit.

LAURA: And I want to Hunter's Mark, can I Hunter's Mark? Too late? Can I Hunter's Mark it?

MATT: I'll say sure.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: There was a countdown.

LAURA: 18… 24 for the first hit, no, 22 for the first hit.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And… God, I can't add. 18 for the second hit.

MATT: Okay. So, both, you know, just a beat of impact, the body tenses in place, and you see a bit of red begin to drip out of the corner of the mouth of the halfling. However, it's still kind of eyes darting around wildly, trying to figure out what the hell is happening. Scanlan, Pike, anything?

ASHLEY: Can I run up and grab the whip out of her hand?

(laughing)

MATT: His hand? Yes, you can.

ASHLEY: Oh, his hand. His hand, so sorry.

MATT: No, the female has been, by uh… Hard to see, halfling with that much mud. You go over and quickly wedge the whip out of the halfling's hand, no issue. Alright, Scanlan, anything?

ASHLEY: That's all I can do, right?

MATT: It's pretty quick, it's pretty easy, it would be like an action. What do you want to do?

ASHLEY: I'd like to use my mace.

MATT: Sure, I'll allow it, because he's not defending anything, it's just like a bonus action. I say go for it. Advantage on the attack.

ASHLEY: OK, 16.

MATT: 16 hits.

ASHLEY: Nice. Alright, alright!

MATT: Because it is a melee against a currently paralyzed individual, it is considered a critical hit.

LAURA: Nice!

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: So double the dice. And then add the bonus on top of it.

LIAM: 20 plus.

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 23, nice. So as you pull the whip out with one hand, you crack the mace right into the face of the halfling. To the point where you hit and you have to kind of like get the elbow lift to pull it free. (laughter) Face is kinda caving a little bit, Ninja Scroll style. And he's kind of like twitching. Still conscious.

LAURA: No, that's awful make it unconscious.

MATT: Not yet.

LAURA: We have to sit through that.

ASHLEY: Sorry.

MATT: Cannot make any of these saves for the life of it, so.

SAM: Can I attack?

MATT: You can now, yes.

SAM: I will use the Myth Carver.

TALIESIN: Oh, wow.

MARISHA: Oh my God.

TALIESIN: Has this happened before?

MARISHA: No, we just got this.

SAM: I don't even know what, I think I'm going to need help.

TALIESIN: Okay, let me help you. This is why we're here. Okay, roll an attack.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: You got this.

SAM: I don't know how to–

TALIESIN: Use a die.

SAM: Okay, I'm gonna hold the sword, and I fumble with it, hold it up again, and then close my eyes and just kinda go like this.

MATT: Okay, so the attack gives you advantage, but the blindness gives you disadvantage, it cancels out, so just roll an attack.

TALIESIN: Plus, eight.

SAM: 12, plus eight?

MATT: So you get 20, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage. And it's a critical hit.

TALIESIN: One d8, so it's two d8 plus three.

TRAVIS: That's the Myth Carver.

SAM: It's one d8 plus three?

MATT: It's one d6 sonic damage, which is also doubled.

SAM: Do I roll twice, or do I just– Not double this.

TALIESIN: You roll-

LAURA: Twice, you roll two d8.

SAM: Double, OK.

MATT: Roll once and then, roll d8 and d6, double that number, add your bonus.

TALIESIN: It's just that easy.

SAM: Roll a d8 and a d6.

MATT: The sonic damage.

SAM: That's a six. Okay, so that's nine, I double that, 18.

TALIESIN: Plus three.

SAM: Plus three is 21.

MATT: Okay, 21 points of damage. As you fumble the blade and cover your eyes as you pull back the blade, the slight humming sound (hums), the blade actually kind of vibrates in place and as you thrust forward, it goes through like butter with a heated blade. You know, you think you missed, then you open and peek through your eyes and see that you went straight though his face.

(laughter)

GROUP: Oh shit.

MATT: Like you hit nothing.

TRAVIS: The face, the skull? Nothing?

SAM: I didn't mean to, ah, this is…

MATT: You pull it out and it's still kind of vibrating a little bit, there is no blood on the blade, the actual like, the sonic vibrations of the weapon managed to shake free any possibility of any of the gore sticking to the weapon.

LAURA: Oh, that's sick.

MARISHA: That's so bad ass.

LAURA: That's pretty cool.

MATT: At which point the spell fades as the life force of this halfling no longer holds sway and the body just crumples into a pile.

MARISHA: All right, onward with our murdering spree, let's go.

SAM: Wait, wait, are they going to know that their two people are gone?

TALIESIN: Eventually.

LAURA: Eventually.

TALIESIN: What other choices did we have?

LAURA: Can we loot the bodies?

SAM: Of course you say that.

LAURA: Before we move forward.

MATT: You can if you want to.

LIAM: I'll check the elf.

MATT: It'll take a while.

LAURA: I just want to make sure that there's nothing super valuable just sitting on them.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: I'm just gonna, I'm going to keep talking to them to make sure they know what's up, so just talking in their ear, they're still walking, walking.

ASHLEY: What's going on Percy?

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27, at a cursory glance, it'll take you a couple minutes, which will put you guys a little behind Grog's procession to do this, but you manage to find, on the two bodies, about 125 gold pieces, two relatively dirty sets of leather armor, one's more of a hide actually, for the woman who had the rapier, it's hide armor. And that's it.

LAURA: All right.

SAM: How about on the thing I killed, anything?

LAURA: You have a whip.

SAM: Oh, they did both?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Can I keep the whip?

MATT: If you want to. Okay, you take the whip and wrap it up real fast and kind of just attach it inside of your belt.

SAM: Kinky.

MATT: Can I have everyone make another stealth check?

LIAM: Still Pass Without a Trace?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: 22.

TALIESIN: 30.

MARISHA: 34.

MATT: No, Pass Without a Trace is gone, you used Hunter's Mark.

MARISHA: Oh, then 24.

TALIESIN: 24.

SAM: Then 12.

LIAM: Oh it just burned you.

LAURA: Oh, it did, it burned.

LIAM: 29.

LAURA: 21.

ASHLEY: 11. Because the extra 10's gone.

LAURA: I'm sorry!

ASHLEY: No, it's all right.

MATT: All right, you guys move on a little bit further towards a T portion of the street, where you can now see there's a cart in the center. And what looks to be a number of other Goliaths are currently pulling two individuals out of their homes and kind of starting to drag them back towards the top of the T intersection where you guys are passing from. As you get to that point, there's a little bit of noise coming that way. You hear another clank and a shh! from behind you in an alley just around the way and the elf behind you has been walking quietly, stops and goes, “All right, something not right is going on at this moment.” He turns around. “You hold here Goliath.”

TRAVIS: No, I don't think I will. But I tell you what, you make the choice. Walk me to Kevdak or go check out your little spook fest.

MATT: He looks over to the other companion, “Go ahead and gather those men, have them follow you into the alley.” Then the other individual walks towards the alley and starts talking to the other goliaths. They go ahead and take some of the people that they're holding by the arms, lift them up over their shoulder, and you now have roughly six individuals, four of which are goliath, now joining up for a total of seven, and they're all heading back towards the alley way--

TALIESIN: Hostages heading towards you just run, just run and hide.

MATT: --where the noise came from. As the elf who continues to walk forward with you is back.

TALIESIN: Just run and hide.

SAM: Do we run?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we disappear. We disappear.

MARISHA: We hide.

MATT: Okay. You guys begin to vanish, make one more stealth check to see if you leave any tracks behind or any followable trace.

TALIESIN: I'm not with them.

ASHLEY: Do we still have Pass Without a -

LAURA: No, I'm sorry. Because I'm an asshole.

MATT: You good?

ASHLEY: Hmm?

(laughter)

MATT: Pike?

ASHLEY: I got a two.

LAURA: Oh no!

(laughter)

SAM: She's the worst!

ASHLEY: I hate my armor! And I love it in battle.

MATT: There's a set you never quite picked up from Gilmore.

ASHLEY: Fuck.

MATT: You had commissioned an armor that would be silent, but it never got picked up.

LAURA: Oh shit.

ASHLEY: What?

LIAM: Ages ago, yeah we commissioned.

MARISHA: Yeah, I was wondering what happened to that. I thought we had it already.

LIAM: It's buried in rubble now.

LAURA: No, maybe he…

ASHLEY: I totally forgot about that.

SAM: Maybe when he was dying he took it with him. He's got it all under his arm.

TALIESIN: Maybe he has a magic vault, it might be fun.

LAURA: That's true, he might have a magic vault.

TALIESIN: I don't know if that's a real thing…

LAURA: He probably has a magic vault.

ASHLEY: I do not remember that at all.

TALIESIN: I just don't remember that either, so.

LAURA: Dammit.

MATT: The thought hits you immediately, the memory of like, oh that's right! As you tumble through a sequence of small boxes, your distraction caught you off guard, and you weren't paying attention where you were walking, briefly before you just fall face first into kind of a mushy mud puddle. And kind of stand up and look.

TALIESIN: Scanlan, you want to do anything about this?

SAM: Of course I do. I'm going to run up to her and just hold her by the hand. Do they see us at this point?

MATT: They are right around the corner, you see shadows beginning to approach across the road.

LIAM: Scanlan, the mansion, open the mansion in a store.

LAURA: He can do whatever he wants, don't tell him what to do.

SAM: Are they going to see us if they round the corner?

MATT: Yes. What are you going to do.

SAM: I hold her by both hands and I Dimension Door us to the rooftop.

MATT: You've used dimension door twice now today.

SAM: That's the third.

MATT: That's your third and final fourth level spell?

SAM: Yes, correct.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: Open the door, do the top one, do the bottom lock.

LAURA: Shh.

TALIESIN: Ix-nay on the argue-jay!

MATT: As you guys are bickering…

LAURA: No!

(laughter)

MATT: Around the corner, the group steps into the alleyway as this little poof of purple energy and smoke quickly dissipates and they all spin looking to the way. They glance about, step in to begin to inspect. Spend a few moments, one of them goes up to where the barrels had fallen over, just kind of pokes, looks into the mud, can see some depressions in the mud. “There's something following us, come on.” And they all begin to swarm into the alleyway, all seven of them. You guys, are you going, are you backing up further into the alley, are you trying, what are you doing?

LAURA: I'm gonna… I'm going to try to parkour up to the ceiling again, up to the rooftops.

MATT: Acrobatics.

LIAM: I'm just going to go backwards.

MATT: Go backwards?

LIAM: Away from them.

MATT: Okay, so heading backwards into the alley.

SAM: Can I see this happening?

MATT: No, you two are just on the roof, and you're kind of like “Okay.” You can glance over and look on the side, if you want to, but this'll be the next thing you see after they disperse.

TALIESIN: I'm just splitting my attention, trying to figure out what to deal with.

MARISHA: I go air elemental form. And into a doorway, into a crack.

MATT: Okay. So elemental form, you're now kind of this little cluster of wind, just underneath the doorway. As they all step in and look about–

LAURA: I 34'ed up to the–

MATT: 34'ed up? All right, and you backed around the way. They step in and begin to kind of split up a little bit. You come back around, and you can head back to the thoroughfare, and continue to follow or find them up on the roof. What are you going to do?

LIAM: I'm going to follow, so I can try to see Grog, but stay hidden.

MATT: So you're going to head back onto the road and duck between alleyways on your own? Okay, so you can do that way, kind of essentially, tracking back around as they entered, and pass them as they're spreading out into the alleyways. Most of you guys are up on the roof now. And Keyleth, you just kind of watch them as they move past and eventually just kind of (imitates wind), behind them. Where do you want to go?

MARISHA: What?

MATT: What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Hiding.

(laughter)

MATT: They move past and all of you companions are currently gone, you're by yourself hiding this big underneath a doorway in your elemental form, what do you want to do?

MARISHA: They're gone though?

MATT: They've moved past you, yeah, they did not notice.

SAM: We've moved on, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Then I try and find them, still in my form, but misting about.

MATT: Okay, so (imitates wind), this little burst of wind that comes up to the rooftop, and as you get up there, you can see a couple roofs over, a couple of dots, the rest of your companions that are slowing making their way along the road.

MARISHA: Okay, I follow them.

MATT: Okay, you guys make your way.

TRAVIS: You lot are so funny. You know, I think I saw something run and hide in that pile of horse shit over there, if you want to check it out, too.

(laughter)

MATT: Silence, no response.

MARISHA: Since I'm already elemental form, I'm going to go ahead and start parting off from the rest of the crowd, I'm going to flake around to the other side, I'm going to start flanking.

MATT: Okay, so you've got to the other side now. The bells have now fully subsided, all the various warning bells that would go off every few minutes, just kind of keeping the state of awareness going, have begun to just dissipate and stop. The elf behind you is kind of glancing back and forth over his shoulder, but still keeps a blade forward. You go past that T intersection, continuing onward into the open central square on the north portion of the road. There's the main central road that you guys have been walking and it opens up into brick and cobblestone, upward with a slight square road interfacing the center. A series of shops and tents and on the left side, you recall is where Noja's shop once was, Abjurist Noja who had saved you at the First Winter's Veil. Not that you guys see this at the moment, but you see this glancing off to the side. The door's kind of half open, it looks like a window's broken, and the inside has probably been ransacked as well. And as you step in you can see that there are a number of tents that are half fallen over, carts that are tipped over with fruit and vegetables that have scattered across the floor and they've just been left there to rot. There are barrels containing, looks like rain water that has gathered over time and section after section of these wedged barricades of pieces of wood that have been jammed into piles with giant spikes and pole arms that have been jammed in there as a defensive place and just to be an ominous position for anyone who attempts to walk into this vicinity. And you see, about every five or six of these, there is a head adorning it, that has been just kind of wedged on, pushed as a warning.

TRAVIS: Do I recognize any of those heads?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Oh God.

LIAM: I don't want to know the answer.

SAM: Well, I recognized a couple earlier.

MARISHA: Yeah, you did, I don't think you've told us yet.

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: Yeah, you glance around a little bit, nothing catches your eye, you're too focused on the goal at hand as you step through each barricade. As you go through the first set, already you can see the cluster of goliaths and as well as individuals that step forward and are like, “Hey, who are you bringing here?” And the elf behind you says, “Apparently a blood relative of Kevdak's. Is this true?” And a few of the Goliaths step forward and say, “Oh, I doubt that.” And the one on the other side says, “Blood relative, the only one is up inside.” He steps forward and you see the next Goliath that you recognize, this is one of the older seers, who has one eye that is completely clouded over white and is this kind of swollen, pus filled socket, that has been kind of perpetually infected over time.

LAURA: Ew.

MATT: He steps forward with this kind of… thick kind of a, almost like a moss-like crust, that has gathered under his neck and he's called Greenbeard because of this weird, whatever infection or ailment he had caused this kind of moss-type material, to grow across his neck and chest area. And he comes forward, using his walking stick, this kind of gnarled branch that he uses and, “Is it really you, Strongjaw?”

TRAVIS: I see your eye still serves you well.

MATT: “You know when Zanror told us that he came across you up north, we beat the shit out of him for being a liar.”

TRAVIS: You should have beat the shit out of him for being a coward. He begged me to let him go.

MATT: “Really? Well, seems we know at least who's caused all the commotion recently. Dead man walking through town by himself into the belly of the beast. So, men, take his head.” He steps back as about seven other Goliaths from up behind and two longbow individuals in the far end go ahead and draw arrows and begin to notch them back.

TALIESIN: I take a bead.

TRAVIS: Well, it would be such a shame. It seems all of you would be missing out on the greatest show of your life. You see, in this bag, I carry the very thing that will topple the mighty Kevdak. You know what I remember? I remember a herd that nations used to part for, I remember a herd that towns used to quake and run from, I remember a herd that was so proud and dangerous, they would never hole up in a shit-stick city like this. But what do I see when I come here? Kevdak prancing up in a place like this and what, bending the knee to a dragon? How far you have fallen. Now, if you have any honor in you at all, you'll take me to Kevdak and you will see what I have for him. And then maybe, just maybe, you can call yourselves warriors again instead of piss pot squatters.

MATT: There's a moment of pause, as all the Goliaths who are approaching have stopped in their tracks. You can see their neck muscles tensing as they're kind of ringing their fingers across the handles of their various weapons. At this point, Greenbeard takes a moment and (laughs evilly) “You sound like your cousin, Zanror. The two of you enjoy a night drinkin' in the hole. But sure, you want to go ahead and talk to the big man. Let's see you say that to his face before he crushes it. Call him out. Thunder Lord, you've a visitor!”

MARISHA: “Thunder Lord”?

MATT: At which point all the Goliaths step back, and some of them turn their blades or weapons around and - start slamming them on the ground in a rhythmic tone. (group groans) Over and over again, and some of them start going into slow chants (imitates chanting). And as this happens louder and louder, the clattering echos through the center of this market place, this now desolate space. Some of them that were clutching people just kind of throw them to the side and some of the peasants begin like scramble up against a wall, not knowing where to go. Or seemingly knowing that if they were to try to flee, it would be the very end of their existence and are just frozen in fear. As this is happening, you see at the Margrave's home, the multi-tiered homestead, this beautiful mansion, which is now smeared with gore, this dried dark brown and brittle, the flickering glow of interior candlelight catches your attention, until across the top floor, you see a balcony that looks over the entirety of this open area. And there the dark form of Kevdak steps out, a towering Goliath in his own right. As he comes forward, puts his hands on the railing, the rhythmic slamming of the weapons growing loud, like this cacophonous rhythm. His fingers slowly tense, and the wood splinters in his grasp as you can see before you, indeed, the Titanstone Gauntlets themselves almost cartoonish in size, even against his large frame. He looks down with his gleaming red eyes, smooth bald head, no tattoo adorning it, but most of his entire body nearly black with scrawlings of ink for every single life he's taken as he's led this herd. He looks down into the center of this area, down to you, with a joyous smile, almost, and says, “Grog Strongjaw. I would have never expected this, not in a very, very long time. I've got to say, I've got to give credit to my boy for not being quite the fable maker that I thought he was, trying to appease me with the ideas of finishing a threat that was apparently left hanging. So, you come here, castaway of the Herd of Storms. You have my attention. Now what words do you bring my ears, before I tear them from your skull, boy?”

TRAVIS: Hello, uncle. The piece of shit you wiped off your boot has come home. When last we saw each other, you saw it fitting to beat down a mere child. I remember another child that got a beating. Seems like he came from your nut sack. (laughter) And my, what an easy task that was.

MATT: “Sometimes the easiest are the most enjoyable. If you let them string out for a long, long time.”

TRAVIS: Well, a regular chip off the old block. If he's anything like his father, that is. So I'll tell you why I've come back.

MATT: “Please, do.”

TRAVIS: See, I've grown, I've learned. I've also watched as dragons took the mighty Kevdak, wielder of the Titanstone Knuckles, and made him bend the knee. I was wondering, do you also squat when you piss now?

MATT: There are a few chuckles, that are immediately silenced at the realization. Kevdak, seemingly un-flinched by this, he puts one hand on the railing and leaps over it, (imitates booming) landing on the stone platform that makes the roof of the initial walkway and foyer of this mansion. He steps out to the edge of it and crosses his arms, and goes , “See, that's your folly Grog, as it was your father's. You're shortsighted. Survival isn't just chewing meat you find and killing what gets in your way. If you pick a fight that you can't win, history won't remember a blood smear on anyone's boot. The dragon was a stage. I've not bent the knee like you think I have, I've merely let it co-exist for the time being. But let's just say that dragon's days are numbered. But it's a shame that you won't be around to see.

TRAVIS: Oh, fancy words for what I hear as surrender. But that's all right, I've always believed the world is what we make of it, and you've shown me exactly who you are. You've shown this herd exactly who you are and what they can expect: to live a nice domesticated life, where the booty runs dry, where the women are scarce, where I'm sure there are plans this very minute to unseat you from your high horse. But I've come to do them a favor, they're not going to get that chance. You and me. I challenge you to single combat for the pride of this herd.

(applause)

MATT: At this moment, there is a long silence, as just a breeze kind of (imitates wind) finds it's way through the center of this town. Kevdak waits, motionless, at the top of the mansion precipice. Everyone else looks up to him, from you, their faces aghast at what just transpired and staring up to him atop the mansion. He looks down, one side of his mouth curls into a wicked smirk. He puts his hand up like this, and you see as the rows of archers that were along the roof tops of nearby buildings, lessen their grip on the bow and put the arrows away. He crosses his arms again. “We reserve the right of single combat to members of the Herd of Storms. You haven't been a number within our midst for years, since you decided to lie there and bleed like a goat. But, I can't say I'm not amused by your gall. So, for the purposes of this bout, let it be known that Grog Strongjaw is a temporary member of the herd. But the moment his lifeless corpse hits the stone, he will be stripped of any honor and fed to the wolves.” (growls) And he leaps off and lands cracking the stone beneath his feet. As he stands again, “Assemble the ring!” And you watch as all of the goliaths start grabbing and moving the barricades, scooting them into a circular pattern around the center of this area. Go ahead and fetch the town square if you could.

LAURA: Oh jeez.

GROUP: Fetch the town square, if you please.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh my God.

SAM: Oh, look.

TALIESIN: You really did it, you son of a bitch. You weren't kidding.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Three days ago, we had dinner and he left the sushi bar with a big handful of toothpicks going, “I have plans for these.”

(laughter)

LAURA: That's hilarious.

MARISHA: That's true. I was like, did you steal toothpicks? He did.

MATT: All righty, so…

LAURA and SAM: Oh my God.

SAM: It's beautiful and it's all made out of cake.

(laughter)

LIAM: I can't believe I ate the whole thing.

TALIESIN: Fuck that house, look at that house. Why don't we live there?

LAURA: The spikes are facing inward?

MATT: Yes, they are.

LIAM: Oh, it's so tight.

LIAM and LAURA: Tight, tight, tight, tight, tight, tight.

SAM: Are we around, can we see any of this?

MATT: You guys are watching this happen.

MARISHA: Yeah, where are we? We're flanking, slowly but surely.

LAURA: Stealthily.

TALIESIN: I'm finding perch on a rooftop, so that I can deal with this shit.

MARISHA: I'm a puff of clouds.

SAM: I'm holding Pike's hand.

(laughter)

SAM: For comfort, my comfort.

LAURA: I'm feel guilty for getting in a fight with my brother, right before I got up on the rooftop.

TALIESIN: This is a great idea.

SAM: This is the part where Matt plays dolls.

MATT: Yep, pretty much.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so where are you guys right now? You're watching this happen from a distant rooftop, right at the edge.

TALIESIN: Is it possible to move the camera to get the house?

MARISHA: I was flanking.

MATT: Right, so you are currently in elemental form.

MARISHA: Can I attempt to actually get on the roof?

MATT: On the roof…

MARISHA: Can I get on this balcony area?

MATT: Over there? If you want to, it's going to be…

MARISHA: In mist form?

MATT: This isn't a mist form, this is your air elemental form.

MARISHA: Or yeah, air elemental form. But I can move through things.

MATT: You can, so you can…

MARISHA: Super, super, super thin.

MATT: Right, so you want to just glide into like, part of the stonework over here, or…

MARISHA: Right, yeah.

MATT: All righty. So at this time, as everyone assembles all the spikes inward in a circle position, and you stand in place, Kevdak walks into the center of the ring, he takes the gauntlets, puts a hand out, and one of the Goliaths comes up and takes a weapon that you haven't seen in a while, this dark red rust-colored ax is placed into his one hand, as the gauntlet grips around it, taking the Blood Ax in his hand, he closes his other fist and slams them together and as he slams them together with a sound of metal, his form warps and grows. And what was once already Kevdak, who held a good four to five inches on your height, swells to about 12 feet tall.

MARISHA: Excuse me?

LAURA: Oh shit.

SAM: Wait, Kevdak just grew?

ALL: Yes.

LAURA: Kevdak just grew.

SAM: Oh my God.

MARISHA: Holy shit.

ASHLEY: I just peed.

LIAM: Ashley or Pike?

MATT: So, whereabouts are you guys at this moment? Just give me some inclination. Keyleth is over there, keeping relatively hidden, as an air elemental. I need you to make a stealth check as part of that, to see if you're noticed.

MARISHA: Natural 20.

GROUP: Yes!

MATT: That I like.

TALIESIN: Figure out where you're hiding.

ASHLEY: Are we coming from behind there or from this side?

MATT: This, you guys would be coming from this direction here.

TALIESIN: I'll take the three o'clock, if the house is 12, I'll take the three o'clock.

MATT: So you'll be kind of up in this–

TALIESIN: Over there.

MATT: Over here? Okay, so we'll say Percy is up on the roof area.

TALIESIN: six o'clock, nine o'clock, 12 o'clock.

MATT: Okay, I need you to go ahead and roll stealth check as well, as you move up there, make sure you're not seen. Where are the rest of you?

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

(cheering)

LAURA: Is there a roof in this area?

MATT: There is. I'm going to put this off to the side there, if you'd like to maneuver in this area as well. For those who want to be on this side. Who wants to be up there with Vex?

ASHLEY: Should we dimension door up there?

SAM: Well, we've been…

MATT: You guys have been following to get to this area.

SAM: We've been following wherever.

MATT: You guys want to be up there with Vex?

SAM: We probably went up with Vex, probably, yeah. We don't know what we're doing.

MATT: Okay. Vax, where are you?

LIAM: I guess I'm maybe off by that fountain in the corner of your map.

MATT: Over there? This is an open area over here.

LIAM: That's all open?

MATT: This is all open, this is the center of the town square.

LIAM: Then I would be at the bottom of the building that Vex is in.

MATT: Okay, so you're kind of close down, like kind of looking through the window out into the main thoroughfare. Okay, good to know. So, Grog. With this, I want you to roll initiative.

MARISHA: Oh my God.

LAURA: Can I take Trinket out of the -

MATT: If you'd like to, yeah, do you want to? Your call.

SAM: Trinket's going to make some noise.

MATT: Initiative?

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17. As you guys begin this fray… No Trinket, yes Trinket, what are you doing?

LAURA: Trinket is staying in the necklace.

MATT: All right. You, as Kevdak takes on a large form, the blood ax swelling with his size, gets into a combat position and he says, “Show me what you've learned, Strongjaw.” You're going first, you beat him on initiative. Go for it.

LAURA: Jesus.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage the rage of my rage-y life. (laughter) And I would like to use intimidating presence on Kevdak.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: That's a risk.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so that's your action on that. So what's the DC on that one?

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: And what's the save?

TRAVIS: Oh, 17 is the wisdom saving throw.

MATT: For that one, do you remember if that one is a–

TRAVIS: It says within 30 feet, frightened until end of next turn, wisdom saving throw.

MATT: Yeah, okay. So as you glare, how do you go about this glare, what do you do to intimidate him?

TRAVIS: I go into a rage. And with my flaming war hammer, I grab the end of the hammer and let it cook my flesh for a minute and then I smack myself on the chest and rip out the biggest bellow I have.

MATT: As you do, Kevdak goes to take a step forward, takes the single step, hesitates, seems to just hold his ground. Eyeing you down and seemingly not expecting this ferocity. All righty, that's your action and your bonus. Are you going to move, or are you going to stay where you are?

TRAVIS: There are no openings in the ring, right?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: You had inspiration, by the way, would that have helped at all?

MATT: There are side openings, like areas here, where you could step out, but you get the sense that, as people are gathering around, they would be plugging elements of this exit, to prevent you from… closing the gap.

TRAVIS: With my bonus action I yell “Coward!” And that's it.

MATT: Okay. Technically the rage is the bonus action, but you can shout that for free.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's fine.

MATT: All right, so for Kevdak's turn, Kevdak kind of realizing that he can't, he's not able to really move closer at this moment, kind of steps to the side here, guarding, kind of waiting…

LIAM: His version of fear was not digging in.

MATT: Yeah, he's going to go ahead and take a bonus action to go into his own rage.

TRAVIS: I just had to try and make it work at least once.

SAM: It worked.

TRAVIS: And it did. Hey man, at least I can say I didn't die without it working once.

LAURA: Don't say that!

ASHLEY: You're not going to die, Grog.

MATT: So Kevdak goes into his own rage. Aas Kevdak goes into a rage, screaming out. (growls) The ground shakes and little stones and rocks scatter across the stonework from the vibration of it. And you see some of those tattoos, the black ink that goes across his chest, you see what looks like a bear that is hidden within the tattoo, that flares up with a flash of dark, deep red crimson energy and then fades back into the chest.

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: 1984 with it.

MATT: You're up Grog.

TRAVIS: Raging. I'll go into a frenzied rage and I charge headlong into Kevdak with my firebrand war hammer.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Actually, he backed up against the ring, right?

(group excitedly exclaims)

MATT: He's backed up against the edge of one of the openings, but if you want to go from here…

TRAVIS: But there's some point-ies behind him right?

MATT: At one angle, yeah.

TRAVIS: I'd like to drive my head right into his chest with my-- Can I move into him hard, see if I can push him back against one of the spikes?

MATT: I'll say sure.

TRAVIS: I still have, if I'm frenzy-ing, would I still have two attacks after that?

MATT: That would be your action, to do that, so you would have your bonus action of you wanted to.

TRAVIS: I'll just run up to him and hit him three times.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, the first two are just normal. I'll just roll these first. 27.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: Misses.

ASHLEY: War God's blessing?

MATT: What's the range on that?

MARISHA: And inspiration.

LAURA: Oh and you have inspiration, that's right.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but this may not be the moment though.

SAM: I've got more.

TALIESIN: It's early.

ASHLEY: Where the fuck is my thing? Oh, it's right in front of me.

MATT: Unfortunately inspiration fades in ten minutes.

ASHLEY: 30 feet, so…

MATT: 30 feet, yeah, he's too far away for War God's Blessing. So the first two strikes, go ahead and roll for damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: But they do hit.

TRAVIS: Where the fuck is it? Oh, there it is. 10, 15, 23, 23, oh 23 plus… Five, so 28 with the fire damage on the first one. And the second one… 17.

MATT: 17, okay. As you slam, whack, whack, with the flaming war hammer, twice into the oversized Kevdak's chest, each hit hits, but Kevdak is just barely pushed back by each and the damage, even the fire damage, seems to be taken down by his raging capabilities. The impacts aren't doing as much damage as you hoped they would.

SAM: Dammit.

MATT: But I believe that ends your turn, unless you want to move?

TRAVIS: Nope, no moving.

MATT: All right. Kevdak's turn. Kevdak's going to go ahead and strafe around this way. And his going to go ahead and reckless attack on you, so that's an advantage on each strike. Is going to take both of these as weapon master. That is a 28 to hit, sorry minus five, 23.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: Second one. 28 to hit again, with the minus five.

TRAVIS: Misses, I mean hits, sorry.

MATT: All right, you suffer...let's see… Less than that… As both of the ax swings come through you, you suffer a total of 54 points of slashing damage.

TRAVIS: Reduced?

MATT: Reduced by half, so that brings it to 27. Plus an additional ten points of necrotic damage that you do not reduce.

LAURA: While all the attention is focused on them, can I stealth down to the ground for a second?

MATT: Make a stealth check. How are you getting down? Are you climbing down via acrobatics? So make a stealth and acrobatics check.

LAURA: 29 for stealth. And 25 for acrobatics.

MATT: Okay. You manage to make it to the ground. Kind of jumping off the side, parkouring down, grabbing the next ledge, leaping down. That's your turn. Okay, anybody else doing anything? Until we come back in the next round?

SAM: I mean…

MARISHA: Do we do anything right now?

TALIESIN: Not until he says so.

LAURA: I just want to duck, can I just duck in the building at least? Is that part of the stealth?

MATT: Sure, you come to the door and the door itself is not locked, you kind of just push on the side of the door. Everyone's attention is so focused on the center. All right. So that brings it to the top of the round, Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Feeling the impact of those hits, and remembering our first encounter, I drop the firebrand war hammer, I rush Kevdak, and I want to try and rip away the blood ax.

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: Okay. You rush up and drop the hammer. Grab and you're face to face, it's right at your feet, you reach up and grab, with your fingers just barely wrapped around this ax's shaft right now, at the size that it's swollen, and you pull against him, I want you to go ahead and make a strength check.

TRAVIS: Which I get advantage on.

MATT: Yeah, versus his strength, which he gets advantage on.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: Natural 20.

LAURA: Oh, come on!

MATT: As you pull, Kevdak actually lifts you up off the ground, holding the ax up to his face and just goes, “Like father, like son.” And shakes you off, well doesn't even shake you off, just butts you off of the ax and you skid to the ground. Take one point of bludgeoning damage, no big deal. Land on the ground, you don't fall prone, but you're there and can probably grab your war hammer and pick it back up if you want to.

TRAVIS: Yep, I'll do that.

TALIESIN: Oh my God, oh my God.

MATT: That ends your turn. Now Kevdak, who's kind of laughing to himself. (laughs evilly)

MARISHA: Oh, he's consulting the book.

TALIESIN: I hate when he does that.

MATT: Why, what could that possibly mean?

LIAM: He's probably looking up the price of a mace.

MARISHA: Totally. What's an adventurer's kit run for?

SAM: Who did this illustration again? Oh yeah, I remember.

MATT: Why don't you make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Does he get advantage on that?

MATT: Yes, you do, because of the rage.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19, well, 22. He puts the ax to one hand, reaches down with his large mitt, grabs you and lifts you up and pushes you onto one of the spears behind you. You can feel it actually pierce out the front of your chest. (group groans) About six inches. Your feet are still on the ground, and you can feel yourself there, but there is an element of being pinned there. You take 12 points of piercing damage, reduced to six. This is nothing to a barbarian, simple piercing, whatever. However you are technically considered, this would be grappled, you're unable to move until you manage to break this. You can still attack from this position if you wanted to, but you have to be able to try and spend an action to get free. So that's going to be the one attack, and then as your pinned, he's going to come up with the blood ax and swing down. That's going to be a 23 against you.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: Blood ax comes down and slams right into the front of your chest, the sternum area, even with the weight of it, you bring your hands up and grab the edge of it and manage to stop some of the force, but it still digs into the front of your chest. You take 19 points of slashing damage, reduced to nine.

LAURA: I release Trinket inside the house that I'm in.

MATT: Plus an additional six necrotic that does not get reduced.

TRAVIS: So nine and then six, so 15.

MATT: What are you doing?

LAURA: I release Trinket, quietly, inside the house. And tell him to keep quiet. Don't follow me.

MATT: Okay. Anyone else do anything else?

TALIESIN: No, I'm just trying to– I'm trying to keep us aware of everything as possible.

SAM: Pike an I are going to just inch forward on the rooftop, to get just a little closer.

MARISHA: Yeah, can I do the same in my elemental form? Like, can I just mist kind of down around kind of right behind this asshole? What's up, I'm a spooky mist.

ASHLEY: Would it take some time to get like behind that fountain?

LIAM: That's in the open, I asked about that first.

TALIESIN: This is one quarter of the square.

MATT: All right. Grog, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: You said I can attack from having a pole shoved through my shoulder?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Would that be at disadvantage?

MATT: No, not at this distance. You just, you're grappled, so you can't move. You're essentially stuck there until you use an action to get off of it, otherwise you can't go anywhere.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I got to get off of it. I'm going to get off of it.

MATT: Okay, so using an action to break free.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Make an athletics check, with advantage because you're raging.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23? There's not a lot of ground to pull yourself off of the weight, so instead, with your feet on the ground, you reach forward and grab the front of his blood ax again and pull forward. And as you do, you feel the back of this wooden spear, snap off and it's still just embedded in your chest, poking out the front, but you are now free. You still have your bonus action.

TRAVIS: I would like to use great weapon master and I have advantage on this because he used reckless.

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: And I'll use his inspiration.

LAURA: If you need it.

MATT: You don't have inspiration. It faded, it only lasts for ten minutes.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 19. No, 29. Sorry.

MATT: 29 with the plus ten, right? Okay, that brings it to 14 damage, reduced by his rage effect as well. As the hammer slams once again into his abdomen, you can see it leaving a char mark and actually kind of obscuring one of the tattoos. “Stupid boy.” You can move around him if you wanted to, you still have a movement.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll move, I would like to move to his flank, away from the nearest pointy thing.

MATT: Okay, so you shift around that way? Okay, with his turn now, he spins around to face you. He's going to go ahead and attempt his first attack on you, as a disarming attack. With advantage on that because, just going with this attack every round. That's going to be a 30.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that'll hit.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Not Great Weapon Master. But it's 30, so it's going to do an additional superiority die of damage on top of this.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: So you take, all right. 17 points of slashing damage.

TRAVIS: Reduced to nine?

MATT: Eight plus two necrotic, so 10 total. And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.

TALIESIN: Oh no, no advantage.

MATT: With rage is it strength ability checks and saving throws?

TRAVIS: Advantage on strength check and strength saving throws.

MATT: So yeah, so advantage on this.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13.

TRAVIS: No, no, no 16.

MATT: 16, okay. So as he slams into your side, you pull up your flaming war hammer to guard the blow, it takes some of it, but then he hooks the bottom of the ax underneath the head and actually flings it out of your hand and you lose the grip on the war hammer, which then clatters to the ground at your feet. He's then going to turn around. And going to go ahead and do a pushing attack. With the superiority die. That is going to be, this is going to be, with Great Weapon Master, that brings it to a 21.

TRAVIS: That's my AC.

MATT: All righty. So you take from the actual blow, 21 points of slashing damage, reduced to ten. And five necrotic.

TRAVIS: I'm going to use my Stone's Endurance.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: What's Stone's Endurance?

TRAVIS: It's just a d12, which is a 12, plus my constitution, so that's 17.

MATT: So as the blow comes, you just take it right to the center of the chest. As it hits, it barely cuts in before you go ahead and grab and deflect it with your hand, doing no damage to you whatsoever. However the impact of it though– make a strength saving throw with advantage again.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18, however the sheer force of trying to deflect it, does push you back 15 feet, right on the edge there, we'll say you're right there, that's fine. And you stop right at the edge of another, edge of the spikes and there are two goliaths that are there with their weapons out, just forcing you back into the ring, if you decide to back up any further. And with that, Kevdak's going to go ahead and move forward and push you into that corner. That's going to end his turn. You're up.

TRAVIS: I'm going to look at Kevdak and drop my arms to my side.

MATT: It's already on your side actually. He disarmed you.

TRAVIS: No, not my arms.

MATT: Oh, your arms, okay.

TRAVIS: Straight down. And I'm going to say, “Clearly I've been a fool. You are truly a foe to be reckoned with.” And I will slowly drop to my knees.

SAM: (gasps) (quietly) No, no, Grog.

TRAVIS: And I will shout out: “Vox Machina! Fuck shit up!”

(cheering)

MATT: And we're going to go ahead and end it there this week. (loud exclamations) It's 11 o'clock guys. (groaning) It's 11 o'clock, you guys!

MARISHA: And we started late.

MATT: I know, I know.

MARISHA: Curse you technical difficulties.

(laughter)

SAM and TALIESIN: Wow.

LAURA: We need to remember where we are, you guys.

TALIESIN: We'll take a photograph, that's what iPhones are for.

SAM: No, that's not possible.

MATT: No, we're taking photos.

MARISHA: I don't think I can forget.

MATT: I'm leaving this here for next week. So we can have this up and ready for us to jump back in.

LAURA: Oh my God-duh!

MARISHA: Fuck shit up!

LIAM: That's so unsatisfying!

(groaning)

ASHLEY: I want to go right now.

MATT: If you guys want to keep going, we can go to midnight on, it's up to you. But it's a Thursday night.

ASHLEY: I know.

LAURA: Let's wait, let's wait.

ASHLEY: What's the general consensus say?

MARISHA: I have to shoot tomorrow.

MATT: The general consensus is it's 11 PM and we're keeping the crew here as well.

SAM: Let's call it.

MATT: And we had a very long Critmas and everything the week before, so let's go ahead and we'll call it tonight. We'll pick up right at this ridiculous moment next week.

TALIESIN: Tune in next week.

MARISHA: It's like the battle of blue balls.

TALIESIN: Goliath balls are blue.

MARISHA: Goliath balls are so blue.

LAURA: Dude.

TRAVIS: I was not expecting that.

LAURA: He was so much more powerful than what…

TRAVIS: Yeah, I was not expecting that.

MARISHA: He's so big.

SAM: I think you can take him.

TALIESIN: We'll figure it out.

TRAVIS: I think it's going well.

SAM: I think you can take him.

TRAVIS: I think we've got him right where I want him.

MARISHA: Just five more minutes, five more minutes.

MATT: Yeah, that's rough. Where are you at hit points wise?

TRAVIS: 133.

SAM: You're fine, you could go for another six rounds!

MARISHA: You're at 133 out of your total?

TRAVIS: 201.

(groaning)

SAM: He's fine, he's fine.

TRAVIS: I'm doing nothing to him.

TALIESIN: That's true, you haven't done a thing.

ASHLEY: Has he done any damage to him at all?

SAM: Yeah, a little.

MATT: Yeah, Grog's done 34 points of damage.

LAURA: Wow, out of like 500 hit points probably.

MATT: There's different paths to a barbarian, there's the frenzy path, which is all about damage, there's the totem path, which totem of the bear means you're half damage for everything except psychic damage.

LAURA: Grog, quick, be psychic.

(laughter)

MATT: Good luck with that guys. But yeah, this is where that totem really shines.

LIAM: If I steal your Kevdak mini, he can't be killed.

SAM: That's true.

MATT: I've got four. (laughter) Not really.

MARISHA: Where does the other totem shine? In damage dealing, probably?

MATT: Frenzy's all about damage and that's what Grog's playing. Anyway guys, we'll pick this up next week at whatever this is about to be, and I have no idea what this is about to be.

TALIESIN: With cameras and stuff though, we'll have cameras and stuff here.

MATT: Yeah, hopefully functional cameras.

MARISHA: Yeah, we'll have a video card next week. We may already have one thanks to Frye's Electronics.

MATT: The fickleness of technology and the wondrous hard work of our crew. Make this still happen guys.

MARISHA: Once again, as I don't know who it was that pointed it out, but we went 50 episodes without any huge...

MATT: Hardware failures, yeah.

MARISHA: Hardware failures.

LAURA: So that's funny.

MARISHA: Episode 51 just ate it.

MATT: Thank you guys for enduring our spree of technical issues, and our evening of one cuts, I hope it wasn't too distracting. Please do come back next week, because this shit's going to be crazy. (laughter) You're not going to want to miss this. So yeah, we'll see you guys next week, and… Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night.

MATT: Hello, and good evening everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Tonight's going to be an interesting evening based on how we left off last week, so we'll get to that here in a moment. First and foremost, let's get through our announcements. At the top, we are excited. This episode and the episodes of this month are brought to you by our new sponsor for this month, Loot Crate.

(cheering)

MATT: Me and Marisha have been Loot Crate–

MARISHA: –purveyors for like three years.

MATT: But they've been awesome enough and interested in helping us sponsor this next month of content, so that being the case, if we want to go ahead and open some of these boxes real fast, and see, so you're aware of the kind of stuff that Loot Crate does. While they're opening this, Loot Crate is a monthly subscription box service that's 20 bucks a month and you get six to eight unique items that are based on a specific theme every month.

LAURA: Leeloo Dallas Multipass!

TALIESIN: This is the one that comes with the Harry Potter socks.

LAURA: Sorry, Matt, you were talking.

MATT: That's okay. You guys show off what you got.

LIAM: I have a little cute facehugger for the face.

MARISHA: Yes, a drinking horn!

SAM: I got a shofar! I'm still saying we should rename the show Crate-ical Role for this month. I'm just saying.

MATT: No, I'm good. I'm good on that, thank you.

TALIESIN: This fabulous Labyrinth t-shirt, which Travis is sporting.

TRAVIS: I think if David Bowie can't keep you alive, I don't know what can. Original War of the Worlds and The Day the Earth Stood Still prints?

MATT: So, the cool thing about this is, they send you a new crate every month that has a certain theme and the content in that is based around that theme. If you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole, you can enter the code 'criticalrole', one word, to save $3 on your new subscription, so if you're thinking about it and you want to try it out for a little while, go ahead and use our code and get yourself a nice little discount, which is rad.

LIAM: The other neat thing about Loot Crate boxes is you can turn them inside out and they become something. This one's an arcade machine.

MARISHA: This one's got a maze on the inside.

TALIESIN: I keep all my stuff in these boxes.

MARISHA: Yeah, they're good storage boxes. Or regifting boxes.

MATT: That the invasion box?

TRAVIS: Yeah. There's an invasion box, a quest box, and a power box, but we don't have that yet.

MATT: Not yet, power box, I think, is this month.

ASHLEY: There's so much X-Files stuff in here. This is awesome.

MATT: (laughs) That was a good month.

LAURA: I think May is World of Warcraft, DBZ. It's got all these amazing things and I was like, I'm a part of all of these things and I want it!

MATT: I like how it's essentially a really tiny pre-stream Critmas.

SAM: Guys, you could watch us open stuff all night.

MATT: I've already lost control of the episode.

TRAVIS: Go to Loot Crate, click the link. Show some love.

MATT: So, yeah, lootcrate.com/criticalrole. You can put in 'criticalrole' as your code there and you'll get 3% off your subscription.

MARISHA: $3 off.

MATT: Or yeah, sorry, $3, not 3%. Much better than 3%. I'm so stupid. $3. It's awesome. Thank you, Loot Crate! Next announcement we have, for those who missed it previously, it is now available: the latest issue of Rat Queens, in which Vox Machina make a cameo appearance during a certain bar-crawl portion of the issue. And some wayward bard ends up trying to buy a drink for one of the members.

TRAVIS: He's got glorious hair, though.

MATT: He has glorious hair, which, mine is shorter now, but it'll grow. Don't worry, those of you who freaked out. I've already gotten people who're like, “You cut it!” and I'm like, “It's hair! I live in the Valley where it's hot.”

LAURA: Well, it's not really hot right now.

MATT: Yeah, not today. Today, the weather's been nice. So, yeah, next up on the list, Taliesin. Supposedly, for those who haven't seen it, the next run on Signal Boost, the show that Marisha writes and produces for, has a new person hosting the next series of episodes.

TALIESIN: Who's hosting the new series– Oh, fuck. I'd better start working on that right now. Oh. It's going to be great. No, I'm having a lot of fun. We're putting it together, and–

MARISHA: It's going to be weird. We're going even weirder. So for everyone who already hates how weird it is, buckle up.

MATT: All right, so, look for that. All right. Also, there is a new series of Geek and Sundry website content coming up called Ask Vox Machina, in which Vox Machina members have been written to by various people living in the world of Tal'Dorei, asking how to solve their problems. Our wondrous players here are answering them in character. I believe the first one is going to be Sam, right?

SAM: Yeah, Scanlan got some great letters from the fans, and he replied with some award-winning advice. So, check that out tomorrow on geekandsundry.com.

TALIESIN: Participation awards all around.

MATT: (laughs) Did you say anticipation awards?

TALIESIN: Participation.

MATT: Oh, I like anticipation awards, too. There's a video game that some people may have heard of called Uncharted 4 that's coming out. Reviews have been coming out and everyone's giving it the best game of forever.

LAURA: It's amazing!

MATT: So, and I believe one of our own Vox Machina plays a rather awesome role in that, Laura?

(cheering)

MATT: Nadine Ross in the story.

LAURA: Yeah, she's a villain, so you get to face off with her. It's really fun.

MATT: That is exciting.

LIAM: You are a good actor.

MATT: And in the multiplayer you might hear me try and kill you a couple times.

LIAM: Yeah, kill him a lot for what he's about to do!

SAM: You also might hear me try to heal you a couple times.

MATT: Okay, so between us, we got you.

LAURA: That's right, I remember when we were going in for multiplayer, it was like, we've got several members of Vox Machina as the multiplayer characters, which is pretty ridiculous.

MATT: Should be fun. All right. Also, we put the new full title intro on Facebook yesterday, so you guys can get it in hi-def glory at your request. And we've already hit a million views on it in a day.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Which is weird.

LIAM: Dungeons and Dragons!

MATT: It's a good time when you can dress up as your D&D characters for a weekend and people on Facebook are like, cool. Like, that's the weirdest thing ever.

TALIESIN: A million people go, huh.

MATT: Huh. That's a thing. (laughs)

LAURA: Although I did get made fun of already.

MATT: Did you?

LAURA: Some fan pointed out that I looked stupid.

MATT: Did they really?

SAM: I wouldn't call that person a fan, necessarily.

MATT: They say that (funny voice) I love the intro but Laura Bailey looks stupid.

LAURA: (fake cries)

SAM: I'm sorry I wrote that.

LAURA: It was Sam.

MATT: All right, last couple things here. The title song actually for that intro, written by our wondrous friend of the show, Jason Charles Miller, who you saw play as Garthok, the half-orc rogue a number of episodes back, who wrote our original theme and the new one, has it up on iTunes. So if you want to have the most badass, nerdy ringtone and/or music to play on repeat until you start bleeding out of your nose, that is now available on iTunes, so you can search for the Critical Role intro music. It's awesome. All right, Liam, you want to take it away?

LIAM: We've come a long way to get here tonight. It's true we may die, and when our bones are turned to dust, carry them away in Wyrmwood gaming boxes, the finest wooden boxes for carrying the remains of the dead ever. They're great! Oh and you can put dice in 'em too, which is probably their intended purpose. And if you like them, they have many different kinds of woods, you go to wyrmwoodgaming.com. And if you want to pay for shipping, you can, but if you don't want to pay for shipping, use the code 'critrole'.

ALL: Critrole!

LIAM: Feels so good. And you'll get free shipping. And then also, lastly, this is the last couple of hours for their kickstarter for the sentinel box. You can get our logo onto any box, like this, or you can get the real swag and get the master box. It looks like this on any wood. And you put your dice in it, cards in it.

ASHLEY: My favorite part of Wyrmwood Gaming is the magnets. Magnets, bitch!

(laughter)

MATT: It's so satisfying.

LIAM: So, that kickstarter, a couple more hours, then finito if you want to get in on that. Okay.

MATT: Cool. And last but not least on my list, it says 'death to all puppies'. I don't know who wrote that.

TRAVIS: Who would write that?

LAURA: It was you, Matt. It was you!

MATT: I'm going to assume it's Sam. It's usually Sam. All right. Well, then, let's go ahead and bring this down now to get in the mood for tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: Welcome back. So! Leaving off from last week's episode, the party of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, trying to save the whole of Tal'Dorei from the Chroma Conclave, a collection of chromatic dragons that have destroyed many of the ain cities here, have gone about searching for items called the Vestiges of Divergence, magical artifacts from a war of ancient times that apparently hold some great power that could aid in defeating these dragons. One of which, apparently, is being held by Kevdak, the leader of the herd of roaming tribal barbaric individuals that Grog once belonged to, and had beaten the crap out of and left Grog for dead long ago. While the dragons had destroyed part of Westruun and left it behind, this tribe utilized that time to take over the town, enslaving or keeping most of the people under their thumb, and making an accord with the one black dragon, Umbrasyl, that is currently in a tenuous relationship right now with these herd members, Herd of the Storm, as they're known. You, having sent a few of them to their death via a trap on the outside, found your way into the city, saved some of the individuals that lived there, as well as Kaylie and Dr. Dranzel, and Grog went ahead and issued a challenge to the Herd to meet with Kevdak himself. After some fairly decent intimidation checks, it was agreed, and while most of the party stealthed behind, you made your way to the very center of the town square, where Kevdak leapt off the top of the ex-Margrave's homestead and the two of you began to do battle in a pit of spikes that was gathered in the center of the town square, surrounded by a number of the clan watching on. During this fight, it went back and forth a bit before Grog felt that this was a losing battle should it continue in this way and decided to, at least it seemed to me, call out to his friends for aid with the classic Shakespearean battle cry of, “Vox Machina, fuck shit up!”

LIAM: That's from Coriolanus.

MATT: Oh, sorry, Coriolanus, thank you. And that is where we're picking up. So–

SAM: Before we go, I have to inspire everyone with this.

(laughter)

MATT: Holy shit. What the– what?

TALIESIN: What are you? What the fuck are you? Oh my God!

LIAM: I want a d10!

SAM: And look, Ashley's, like, somewhere, I can't even see.

MATT: Please tell me that was a gift from somebody.

SAM: No, I made this myself, because I wanted you all to know how passionate I was about tonight.

LIAM: Sam? Could you kiss your right gun?

ASHLEY: Kiss it! Kiss it!

SAM: Mm. Tastes like strawberries. And sweat.

MATT: Inspiration granted and immediately taken away.

TRAVIS: Do your pants also have photoshopped lightning coming out of the crotch?

SAM: No, my pants are just jeans.

ASHLEY: Wait, how far down does it go?

SAM: All the way, baby.

MATT: That's the first step of the process. The pants come soon.

LAURA: Did you just do that at home with a–?

SAM: Yeah, I just penciled it in.

MATT: I can't even. That's a thing. All righty, so, with that, we are going into the realm of battle. Let's go ahead and kick on the proper music for this. So, with Vox Machina currently on the rooftops here and hiding within the bottom of this building, we have the four archers that have appeared on the rooftop of the Margrave's house. We have most of the individuals that are surrounding this, along with the few innocents, which just for the sake of appearance, here, I will go ahead and attempt to mark with a few markers so you know who you're looking for, innocents-wise.

LIAM: We're the innocents, Matt. We're the innocents.

MATT: No, you're not. Not anymore. All right, so, the red markers are going to act as markers for the innocent, just so you're aware.

TRAVIS: Percy. Percy! Taliesin! You're on that roof, right?

MATT: Percy's over there. All righty, so, that all being the case, guys, as Grog shouted, at this moment the individuals in the center of the square start looking around, confused, not knowing where to come from. At this moment, a few of them manage to catch up a glance at the individuals that are on the rooftops. I need everyone to roll initiative, along with you, Grog, because combat has begun again at this point at the top.

MARISHA: Wait, all of us?

MATT: All of you guys. This has started.

TALIESIN: I mean, that's not amazing. That's better. 14.

MARISHA: You're still ahead of me. You rolled a nat 20?

ASHLEY: Why's he laughing?

TRAVIS: Because he's fucking evil.

MATT: 'Because he's fucking evil'? Is that what you said?

TRAVIS: Who said that? I will beat him with my fists.

MATT: All right, so, for the sake of this one, we have 25 to 20.

LAURA: 27.

LIAM: 24.

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21, okay, so we have– let's see.

LIAM: All the people who wanted to go first are going first.

MATT: All right, 20 to 15?

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: All righty. 15 to ten.

TALIESIN: 14.

MARISHA: 13.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: Pike, getting into the double-digits!

ASHLEY: Oh, you know. Moving on up.

TALIESIN: I'd rather have my low roll here than for anything else.

LAURA: Oh god, oh god, oh god, oh god.

TRAVIS: It's like a roller coaster. We're just going tick-tick-tick-tick-shooom.

MATT: A lot here I'm keeping track of, guys. All right, so, the surprise round affects all the archers. It affects everyone except for these four individuals, or these two individuals with the clubs, and these two women here with big swords, and Kevdak. So, top of the round, Vex.

LAURA: Does the second story of the house that I'm in have windows? Can I see?

MATT: The second story does.

LAURA: Can I run up the stairs, then, so I can get a better look at the playing field?

MATT: Actually, this one was supposed to go this way for the entrance point there. All right. So you are currently now looking out the side of the window.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to– I'm already hiding, right?

MATT: Right, no one's seen you at this point.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to Hunter's Mark Kevdak. And I'm going to hold my turn–

MATT: Putting a green on him for the Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: I'm going to hold my turn until it seems like he's better incapacitated or until something happens. I'm going to hold my turn.

MATT: Hold your action until–?

LAURA: I think until Scanlan goes.

MATT: Okay, so that finishes your turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Am I at a window as well, downstairs?

MATT: You are by a door.

LIAM: Am I half on a street? In a door?

MATT: You're inside the house right now. The door is technically partially ajar because you guys did slip in.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to click my boots, crack the door a few inches, and I'm going to hold my turn until one of our magic-users pulls a trick or Kevdak takes a swing at Grog.

MATT: Okay. That'll end your current actions. The archers are surprised. They do not go. It is Kevdak's turn. Kevdak sees you shouting out. He rolled a natural 20 on his initiative.

LAURA: No, he didn't! That's why you shook your fucking head.

MATT: Yeah. I was like, man, all right. Let's start this right.

MARISHA: Fucking Wheaton!

MATT: They had Wheaton come in and touch all my stuff. All right, so he's going to go ahead and, seeing you shout like this, he looks about for a second. He's going to continue his rage. He glances about, looks over and he sees nothing immediately on the rooftops, but looks down at this individual now shouting out for help before him, prostrate, and he gives you a glance and says, “Well this seems real familiar, doesn't it, Strongjaw?” At which point he's going to go ahead and take two of his reckless attacks against you. That's going to be a 28 to hit.

TRAVIS: I'll have to look, but I think it hits.

MATT: Yeah. Second attack is a 30 to hit.

TRAVIS: These aren't Great Weapon Master, right?

MATT: No, these are not Great Weapon Master.

LAURA: What is his attack fucking bonus?

TALIESIN: At least ten.

MATT: You take 30 points of slashing damage, reduced to 15. And two points of necrotic damage, because it's not reduced. And second one's going to be 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11, and then five points of necrotic on top of that.

SAM: However, for the second slash, I'm going to use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.

TRAVIS: Before he does that, you said 17 on the first one, 11 on the second attack, and how much necrotic on the second one?

LAURA: Seven overall. Plus two necrotic on the first hit. Five necrotic on the second.

MATT: You might have to get a little bit closer to make sure that he can hear you.

LAURA: Plus that would be giving away your hiding.

MATT: What're you going to do, Sam?

SAM: I step forward closer to him and I use Cutting Words.

MATT: Okay, you step to the very edge of the rooftop here.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: We'll say for the sake of this, right there.

SAM: And I shout, oi, Kevdak! I have a message from the people of Westruun! And I moon him.

(laughter)

SAM: And I say, kiss our metaphorical hairy arses!

MATT: Just like that on your shirt. As he brings around his axe for a second swing, he hears that and glances over his shoulder and sees this shiny gnome butt up on the top. Continuing the swing, though, to attack. Go ahead and reduce the damage using your Cutting Words.

SAM: Ten, right?

MATT: Uh-huh.

SAM: Pff. One.

MATT: So you take ten points of slashing damage from that strike. Oh, you're wielding Mythcarver, so his next saving throw is at disadvantage, right?

SAM: Yes, it is.

MATT: Because you're not currently wielding your weapon, Kevdak's going to go ahead and take a step back and glance over at you, as he's going to move his fingers up and point towards the roof. And you see a bunch of the other entities and archers, whoosh, shift their attention over in your direction, Sam. All right, that finishes Kevdak's turn. Scanlan, you're up next. Actually, you do get an attack of opportunity on him with your fist. Because you're not holding your warhammer right now.

TRAVIS: I rolled a five, plus what? My strength?

MATT: I mean, it's your strength modifier plus your proficiency modifier.

TRAVIS: 13?

MATT: 13, no. You punch his back and it just hits off his muscle. All right. Sam, you're up.

SAM: Okay. From my crouched, butt-out position, whilst holding my Hand Cone of Clarity.

MATT: Where are you holding it?

SAM: It's shoved up there.

LIAM: Between the legs, upside-down.

SAM: Before I make this attack, when I scanned around, did I see any of his allies without any weapons or carrying a staff or something like that?

MATT: No, they're all the type of people that would be at all times wielding something at their side. There are two individuals that you do notice, there is this one here, and there is Greenbeard right there, and they both appear to have some sort of a quarterstaff-type implement, but everything else is either bladed or giant clubs or some sort of big melee weapon.

SAM: But they're surprised anyway.

MATT: They are, yes.

SAM: Okay. Okay. Well, then, I will cast Hold Person at level three on Kevdak.

MATT: On Kevdak.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Oh boy.

SAM: At level three, so I get to target one other individual.

MATT: You would, yeah.

SAM: And I would target the beardy guy with the staff.

MATT: All right, Hold Person. For a minute, wisdom saving throw, for the duration. Okay.

SAM: Wisdom saving throw with disadvantage.

MATT: With disadvantage, yes, that is true. Kevdak. All right.

SAM: Because of Cutting Words.

MATT: He rolled a 19 and an eight. Taking the eight, that brings it to a ten, so that's a failure on him.

(cheering)

LAURA: For Hold Person, does it un-paralyze him if we hit him?

SAM: No. He's just paralyzed. You can have at him. And can I still move and do other things?

MATT: You can in a moment. We have to figure out if the other guy makes his save. He rolls a natural one.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: Aw, man, the rest of these people are going to be real pissed.

LIAM: This is where my held turn comes in.

LAURA: Me too, but I was in front of you.

LIAM: Yeah, go for it.

TRAVIS: If you hit him, does he become not paralyzed?

LIAM: No, he's stuck.

MATT: Yes. At the end of each of his turns, the target can make another wisdom saving throw. And paralyzed, for those who are aware what paralyzation does, a paralyzed creature is incapacitated and cannot speak, automatically fails strength and dexterity saving throws, attacks rolls have advantage, and any attack that hits the target is a critical hit if it's within five feet of the creature.

LAURA: Oh, five feet. Damn it. Oh, but that's good for Grog. Okay.

SAM: Okay, wait. I still get my move, right?

MATT: You do.

SAM: Okay. Is there any cover? Are there chimneys? Is there anything I can duck behind?

MATT: You can duck behind the other side of this roof if you'd like.

SAM: And still maintain sight? Oh, wait, no, I'd be more than 60 feet away.

MATT: I mean, it's more the casting time. You can still move away once you've cast the spell and hold it there.

SAM: Okay. Then I'll duck back behind some cover. And as my bonus, I still get a bonus, I will inspire Grog and I'll say, Grog! Now it's your turn to fuck shit up.

(laughter)

SAM: All right.

MATT: And that finishes your turn, Scanlan?

SAM: Yeah, that's it.

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: He's paralyzed.

MATT: You watch as he steps away from you, points up, and all the archers turn towards that, everyone else looks over at the rooftop and you hear a cacophony of voices around growling, before Kevdak takes another step and (grunts). And you see the gleaming ass of Scanlan in the distance, the high noonday sun bouncing off of his pale, sun-dappled, gnomish skin. These two round globes of victory staring down from the rooftop.

SAM: Round globes of victory! I love it.

TRAVIS: Can I walk around to the front of Kevdak?

MATT: Do you want to pick up your weapon first, or?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Nope? Okay.

LIAM: Do the twins go first or does Grog go first?

MATT: Oh right, because you held your actions, so, up to you.

SAM: Okay, do your thing, do your thing.

LIAM: I'm going to go.

LAURA: I'm going to go.

MATT: Yep. All right. So. We have now Vex, taking your shots.

LAURA: Yes. Yes. I'm going to shoot from my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So that's three attacks on the first attack.

MATT: Yes, and they all have advantage because he's paralyzed. This is bad for Kevdak, but we'll see how it works.

LAURA: Okay, so.

MATT: Still raging, so everything's half-damage.

LAURA: So 19 plus 12 probably hits on the first attack.

MATT: Yeah, that does.

LAURA: Okay. 19 plus 12 hits on the second.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: And 17 plus 12 hits on the third?

MATT: Yeah, they all hit.

LAURA: Okay. I'm adjusting my glasses, I'm so nervous. Okay. 28 on the first hit.

MATT: 28, reduced to 14, okay.

LAURA: 21 on the second hit.

ASHLEY: Get him, baby.

LAURA: 16 on the third hit.

MATT: Okay, that reduces to eight. All the arrows strike true, thump-thump-thump, but still each one is only piercing the flesh so far, he's generally so dense in his musculature, each impact is not having the same satisfying (impact) sound you're used to. But that ends your held action and it is now your turn.

LAURA: Oh, but I get another attack, because that's just one attack.

MATT: Oh right, that was the sky sentinel, go for it. Take a second attack.

LAURA: My second attack, I'm going to take at Greenbeard, and I'm going to shoot through the flaming bowstring.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 17 plus 12 probably hits? 17 plus 12?

MATT: Yeah, that's going to hit.

LAURA: Okay. Gah! 14 on that one.

MATT: 14, okay. 14 damage to him. Greenbeard is currently stuck there in place, the arrow sinks into his robe and you don't even see the impact, it absorbs into the cloth and he goes, ah, and you hear the escaping air from the impact but he can't actually move.

TALIESIN: Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: I hunter's marked, he's hunter's marked already.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: At this point, you'd better.

TALIESIN: We're not panicking, no, not at all.

LAURA: Not at all. Hunter's Mark! I did it, I swear!

MATT: All right. You're up.

LIAM: Just to verify, because Kevdak is still raging, am I denied the surprise attack from inside here?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay. So I'm going to use sharpshooter and drop five to hit harder, I'm going to throw a dagger at advantage, yeah?

MATT: So you're moving up into the doorway.

LIAM: Yeah, to the doorway, right, so the first–

MATT: Who are you attacking?

LIAM: Kevdak. 60 feet.

MATT: 60 feet, you'd, okay, yeah, you can get right into there and probably still hit him from there. Because you have sharpshooter, you don't have the second increment range, go for it.

LIAM: Okay, so it's 25.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Four, oh, hold on, I'll save that four. 20. Okay.

TRAVIS: My hands are fucking shaking.

LIAM: (counting) 31, 37.

MATT: 37. And half of that is going to put it at 18.

LIAM: Okay. I'd like to use my bonus action to throw the next–

MATT: You had the held– a held action is just your action.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, you did the clicking the boots of haste already.

LIAM: I thought that was a gimme– oh, that's the bonus action?

MATT: Well, the idea being that when you hold your action, you have an action that you hold until it triggers. The bonus action's a whole different thing that you have to take on your turn.

LIAM: So taking a hold is an action? I don't understand.

SAM: Holding your turn loses your bonus action.

MATT: Yes, essentially you have your action and your bonus action. Holding your action means you hold that one bit of it but your turn still continues past it.

LIAM: Okay. Which doorway, where am I on the map, I can't see myself? Right there? Could I run to the corner of the building that the archers are on and scrabble up the side of it?

MATT: Over here?

LIAM: And get to that archer?

MATT: You can certain try it.

(laughter)

MATT: You rush past one of the peasants, fear in their face, they're confused and looking around and you see there's mud and a little trickle of blood that's dried down their face. As you (darting noise) by, they go, (gasps) You don't pay too much mind to them.

LIAM: Acrobatics check?

MATT: Make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: 30. You manage to make it up to the top.

LIAM: Do I have an action left?

MATT: No, you used your action.

LIAM: Action, action, bonus action with the hasted boots?

MATT: Technically, you wouldn't be able to move at this point even, but I'm letting you do that. Usually your move, it's a little weird.

LIAM: Okay, so I'm outta gas.

MATT: So yeah.

TRAVIS: This is the most epic map ever, by the way.

MATT: Trinket's just chilling in the house. (sad bear noise) All righty. So that ends your held action, now Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Can I walk around to the front of Kevdak, please?

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Knowing that he pointed up with a hand at Scanlan's beautiful ass, hand still on his greataxe, paralyzed, can I try and rip– continuing my rage because he hit me last round– can I pull the axe from his hand?

MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics check.

LIAM: He's going to fail this one.

MATT: With advantage, because you are raging.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: Oof! You yank the bloodaxe from his grip.

SAM: Yes!

TRAVIS: Because I'm frenzied raging, do I have another move?

MATT: I mean–

TRAVIS: Like, can I hit him with it?

MATT: Let's check on that, because I don't know if it's an attack-action-based, because you didn't take an attack action last turn, you used your action to pull it away. Looking at that right now, the berserker is here. Let me see.

SAM: Lots of rules tonight, guys. Upper-level rules.

MATT: Yeah, it's a bonus action, so you could if you wanted to. The weapon isn't attuned to you, so it would just act as a regular axe, possibly.

ASHLEY: Make it attuned to you!

MARISHA: That's a short rest.

TRAVIS: Can I, looking at the axe, say, oh, I do hope you have a necromancer in your group, because I'm looking at a fucking dead man.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Can I aim right above the gauntlet below the elbow on his left arm? Swing to his side with the axe.

MATT: Like on his left arm? Sure. You're going to be– it's going to– okay, so you're raging. Advantage. Well no, reckless attack would be the advantage if you wanted to.

TRAVIS: Well, he did it against me so I get it against him.

MATT: Well, you have advantage against attacks with him anyway, because he's paralyzed. I will say, it'll have– okay, you'll have advantage on the attack, but I will say it's a general minus five to the attack, just because it's a very specific called shot. Go for it.

MARISHA: Do it, do it.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's much better. 20.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: I don't know what the attack bonus is with the axe.

MATT: It's a d12, and add your strength modifier.

TRAVIS: Okay. Where is it? Jesus.

LAURA: That's it, that's it, that top one. That one. Yeah.

MATT: Poor d12.

TRAVIS: This one? Plus what?

MATT: Strength modifier, which would be three.

TRAVIS: Ah. So five.

MATT: Five. Whoosh, you hack the blade and it sinks quite a bit into the arm right above the elbow, you can see as you pull it out, a bit of bone is exposed from it, but the arm is still intact. It wasn't enough damage to go through, but he's like, (stifled yell)

TRAVIS: And it hit him, right? So is it an automatic critical because it hit?

MATT: Because you were within five feet, so, yes. So double the dice. So what'd you roll on the dice?

TRAVIS: So it was a two.

MATT: So four. So instead it would be seven damage. Still not enough. But you do do a significant amount of damage to his left arm. His now-open hand's gripping nothing. Actually the one hand was holding the axe and the other one was pointing up, so he's like, (strained sound) looking at you right now as the blood begins to seep out of the fresh wound on his left arm.

TRAVIS: Do I have any of my movement left, can I move around behind him? 50.

MATT: You can move three more spaces, so yeah.

TRAVIS: I'll either flank him or, yeah.

MATT: Three. That's where you can get, right there. Okay. That ends your turn. Surprise back, Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: This'll be fun, we'll see what happens. All right, first thing I'm going to do is cast Hex on Kevdak, on the asshole, I'm going to Hex him.

MATT: (laughs) Cast Hex on the asshole.

TALIESIN: So he is now enveloped in my dark smoke of death. He's also now at disadvantage on all strength checks.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's a thing.

MATT: That's the thing with Hex, all right. So yeah. You watch as Grog walks around him, Grog's shadow seems to stretch out from his form, reach up, and wrap itself around, almost merging with the tattoos across his torso. The actual bear tattoo almost seems to be almost covered with shadow.

TRAVIS: I love you.

TALIESIN: I know, I'm so happy. I'm going to take a little step back to get a slight bit of cover from those archers for when they start hearing the big bang-bangs coming from the house, to get half-cover, so I can still–

MATT: Which way are you going?

TALIESIN: I'm going from my current vantage point, to about seven o'clock, eight o'clock.

MATT: About here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, about there. For a little bit of cover from the arrows. And I can still see Kevdak.

MATT: Yes, you can.

TALIESIN: So if I wanted to take my little pistol and start carving a little– and I've got a nice little chunk of bone I can see in his arm– can I take a sharpshooter disadvantage to hit that point?

MATT: You could. I'll move this board a little bit so you guys can see better.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to shoot with sharpshooter specifically for his arm.

MATT: His left arm, you do not have a view on it right away.

TALIESIN: Oh.

MATT: I would say from your perspective on the rooftop, because he was turned this way and is facing this way, you would have a big ol' view of his back and shoulders.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to take a shot for the elbow.

MATT: On this arm?

TALIESIN: I'm going to try, yeah, on the visible elbow.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to sharpshooter through that shit, see what happens.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Okay. And I'm happy if you want to put any weird disadvantage–

MATT: You have advantage on the attack because he's paralyzed.

TALIESIN: No, I don't, because I'm at distance. Or do I have advantage be–

MARISHA: He's paralyzed.

TALIESIN: Oh, he's paralyzed! I have advantage on the attack.

MATT: You have advantage on that, and then you have disadvantage because it's a called shot, plus minus five.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's fine. But I get the bonus ten points still.

MATT: You would if you hit.

TALIESIN: Okay. All right. That's fine. Natural 20.

ALL: Oh!

TRAVIS: Oh my god, are you serious?

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.

TALIESIN: Should've used the big gun, really. All right, that's okay. So that's, oh, hello baby, you're over here. Actually, I'm going to use the pink one–

MATT: What's the first range increment for the pistol?

TALIESIN: 400 feet.

MATT: Yeah, okay.

TALIESIN: I'm scary.

MATT: Gun. Go for it.

TALIESIN: I know. Sorry. I know, I thought about that. Come on, baby, no whammies. Do I double the dice?

MATT: Double the dice and then add the modifier to it.

TALIESIN: Okay, so that's 16, (counting), 32 points of damage for the first shot.

MATT: 32 points of damage? Okay, half of that into 16. (gunshot) You watch as the blast hits into the side of his arm. The arm actually hyperextends and part of the bone shoots out the side, and he goes and screams out. The arm does not, you know, it looks like it's in a rough place.

TALIESIN: I'm shooting again. Same thing.

LAURA: Oh my god, he's going to shoot his arm off.

TALIESIN: 17, good enough. 17, I'm rolling good.

MATT: With the disadvantage?

TALIESIN: No, it cancels out because he's– it's no advantage, no disadvantage, right?

MATT: You got advantage because he's paralyzed, yeah. You're right, you're right. Hold Person, man. Nasty.

TALIESIN: (counting) 25 to hit. That hits.

SAM: This is like 127 Hours, except with a gun.

TALIESIN: That's the title of my, '127 Hours With a Gun'.

LIAM: And remember, this is happening in about ten seconds.

TALIESIN: I know. I actually, also, I rolled the wrong die, he didn't take nearly what, that's okay, so here.

MATT: Too late.

TALIESIN: I know, too late. I know. I fucked that up.

MARISHA: You rolled four, though.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I know, so I did okay. Five, six, seven, eight– (counting) 24 points of damage.

MATT: 24 points of damage. So minus that to 12, this is the same elbow?

TALIESIN: Same elbow.

MATT: (gunshot) You see now, the arm actually is dangling now from some sort of sinew and bone that is barely keeping it on at this point.

TALIESIN: Do you have a d6 that I can borrow? I'm going to go for my third, can I borrow your pink d6? I want to Bowie this shit. Yeah. I want to be flamboyant as fuck. All right. Going to call it. 14. (counting) 24 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Goodbye, elbow. Eh, well, not bad. (counting) 23 points of damage.

MATT: Lower that to 11. Okay. This shot hits the elbow again, actually destroying a big portion of the upper forearm. It's now essentially but a single leftover bicep muscle that's holding it in place as blood's pouring from the wound right now.

LIAM: Who wants bacon?

TALIESIN: All right. I'm calling it for now.

MATT: All right, that ends Percy's turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to roll up this roof like a big, ominous fog cloud. And come up, and I want to do a Whirlwind on those two archers up there.

MATT: Up here? Are you coming from up here, you mean?

MARISHA: Yup.

MATT: All righty. Let's take this here.

MARISHA: So they must make a DC 13 strength saving throw.

TALIESIN: I haven't burned any grit yet, I'm so excited.

MATT: Balancing here, there we go. A DC what? Oh no! Keyleth's dead.

LAURA and ASHLEY: No!

TALIESIN: Ironically, crushed by a tree. Curse you, nature.

MATT: All right, what's the DC on that?

MARISHA: The thing that she loved killed her. 13. Strength.

MATT: Strength?

TALIESIN: Strength check or save?

MATT: This is a saving throw.

TALIESIN: Oh, damn. Does he still have disadvantage?

SAM: Except she's not attacking him.

MATT: Okay, one of them fails, one of them succeeds.

MARISHA: Okay, so the one that fails takes 3d8 plus two bludgeoning damage, which is pretty good. 11, and he's flung 20 feet away. In a random direction.

MATT: In a random direction? All right. Let's go ahead and see what direction, that's a one, so he gets flung this way 20 feet?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Five, ten, 15, 20. (yells, impact). Falls prone there.

MARISHA: He takes another 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every ten feet he was thrown.

MATT: Yes, that would be– 2d6, that puts it at, I rolled double sixes on that, so that's 12 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Yeah yeah!

MARISHA: And he's knocked prone.

MATT: Yes he is.

MARISHA: And the other guy–

MATT: (yells, impact), as this whirlwind of–

LAURA and ASHLEY: Ow ow ow ow.

MATT: Yeah, as you see, of the roof itself up there, portions of the rooftop are cracking off and spinning into the void of wind that Keyleth's currently creating within herself. Portions of the tree branches are swirling into it as various leaves and dead plant life that had been scattered around the roof are all filling this giant vortex that has appeared on the roof of the Margrave's house, tearing into both of the archers. One of them flung off, landing face-first, the other one–

MARISHA: Takes half damage.

MATT: Takes half damage. Okay. All right. Five points of bludgeoning damage. All right. Does that finish your turn?

MARISHA: Yup.

MATT: All right. Pike, you're up.

SAM: Yeah, Pike!

ASHLEY: Since I can't reach Kevdak, I'm going to send over a Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Range is 60 feet.

MATT: Spiritual Weapon. As a cleric. That's a level… two?

ASHLEY: I'm going to do it at a higher level, I'm going to do it at a level five.

TALIESIN: Five? Five?

ASHLEY: It's a big one.

(laughter)

LIAM: In the shape of Madeline Kahn and it's out for blood.

MATT: We'll use this metal d20, where do you want to place it?

ASHLEY: Right above him.

MATT: We'll say in this central area there.

ASHLEY: It's, I don't even know, a big–

MATT: What weapon of Sarenrae's retribution would you want to summon in spiritual form upon Kevdak?

SAM: A beartrap!

ASHLEY: I just want it to be a big sword.

MATT: Okay, so a large greathand sword, almost a light reflection mirror-image of the Craven Edge that nearly tore the soul from your friend–

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: You see a large light blade of Sarenrae's wrath emerges out of the stonework in the center of the square. Floats in the air for a second, and you want to go ahead and make that, and this is your bonus action–

ASHLEY: This is a bonus action, yeah.

MATT: If you want to use your action to cast a spell, you can't do higher than a level two right now. Because of the limitations on spells in our homebrew. However, do you want to have it attack Kevdak?

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll for the damage. With advantage.

ASHLEY: That would be a natural 20.

LAURA: C'mon, Pike!

ASHLEY: All right, okay.

MARISHA: We talked for a week!

TALIESIN: Hundreds of text messages.

MATT: Wait 'til the surprise round's over.

LIAM: You mean 30 seconds with the earring.

MATT: All right, so, you're looking at 4d8.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to use Divine Strike to make it 5d8.

MATT: Well, that's only on your melee attack, it's not your actual spells.

LIAM: It's all right, you're already a badass.

MATT: So roll 4d8, multiply that by two.

SAM: Multiply by two.

MATT: Critical hit.

SAM: Oh my god.

ASHLEY: What did you say?

MATT: You roll 4d8 times two.

ASHLEY: 22.

MATT: So 22 plus your wisdom modifier.

ASHLEY: Is 30.

MATT: So 30. Half that to 15.

ASHLEY: Aw.

SAM: Hey, that's good!

MATT: As the blade strikes down onto the now currently brutalized Kevdak who is still held in place angrily being whaled upon by the majority of you. So what else do you want to do this turn, if anything?

LAURA: Oh yeah, you can still do other things!

MATT: You can move, you have an action.

LAURA: This is a bonus!

MATT: It lasts for a minute, and it's not concentration.

ASHLEY: Yeah, I should probably, I should probably–

MATT: As a bonus action you can make it move and attack every round, so.

ASHLEY: Awesome. Okay, so I'm going to, would it be possible to get down on that bottom roof and hide?

MATT: Here?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: You could. Make an acrobatics check.

TALIESIN: Clang clang clang.

LAURA: You're going to roll, roll for it! I can't even read that. Oh.

MATT: What's the total?

ASHLEY: Five.

MATT: Fresh off the 20. Pike looks over the edge, leaps, hits a little bit to the side, her feet actually break– from the weight of the armor and the angle you hit, break some of the shingles on the rooftop and you end up slipping onto your shield and you slide off the roof.

LAURA: No!

MATT: And end up on the ground there.

MATT: You take seven points of damage from the fall, and you're knocked prone currently on the ground as you now see staring at you– You're prone. A number of these angry Herd members that are all intent on murder at what's been happening.

LIAM: I still think you're really cool.

ASHLEY: It's okay, I can run out of there with my Sprinter's Boots.

MATT: All right, Pike, that ends your turn. Now. I get to do some more stuff.

TALIESIN: She's made of armor.

SAM: They're coming for you, Pike. You got a reaction or something?

LAURA: Seriously. Pike, they're all coming for you.

SAM: Yeah. You're dead. Do you have a reaction of some sort? Do you have a reaction?

MARISHA: Don't die, you are not dying tonight.

ASHLEY: It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, we're going to be fine, we're going to be fine.

TALIESIN: She's made of armor and they're people with sticks, with sharp sticks.

SAM: Oh my god, she's going to die.

MARISHA: She's not going to die, she's not going to die.

SAM: Love of my life.

TALIESIN: Not in one round.

MARISHA: There's only one guy who ran up to her.

LAURA: Scanlan, would it say 'reaction' here?

SAM: She knows what her reactions are. You do have one.

MATT: All right, so. Three of these individuals, some of which you may have passed in your time, and two of which you see are members that were absorbed into the tribe from what was previously the Rivermaw tribe, (roar) give off these angry roars and go into an immediate rage, breaking the surprise element, and charge. Three of them on you, one of them goes darting across the field right towards you, Pike. With that, these, pull out this sheet here, these Herd of the Storm warmongers are going to go apeshit on your ass. Grog, that's six attacks on you. Because of the flanking rules, that's going to put four of them at advantage.

SAM: Oh my god.

MATT: First one is going to be an 18 to hit?

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: Misses. The first one goes and swings towards you, and you duck underneath it and whoomph, misses you by a mile. However, as that's happening, another blade comes the other direction, that's going to be a 25?

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: Natural 20. Third one, so one hit. Second one's going to be a 28, so that's two hits and a critical. And then one that doesn't have advantage on you with both strikes is going to be 23, that hits, and a 16 that misses. So.

SAM: You do have inspiration.

MATT: Four hits and one crit.

TRAVIS: I can't use it on this stuff, though. Only when I attack.

MATT: All righty. So, the four hits first. That's going to be 15 points of slashing damage.

TRAVIS: Reduced to seven?

MATT: Reduced to seven. Right. Ooh, 19 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: 13 points of slashing damage, reduced to six. And another 13, reduced to six. Now for the crit.

TALIESIN: I would like to remind you that potions are a bonus action. Thank you.

MATT: (counting) That's going to be 22 points of slashing damage on that, reduced to 11.

TALIESIN: Whew, you are a tank.

LAURA: Unless he's unconscious.

MATT: Pike. So you're now surrounded on all sides, Kevdak's there before you, but you've now been completely swarmed in by three of these entities. Pike, this one rushes towards you, (battle-cry), this female half-elf, you can see a line of drool from her face with the sheer speed she was running and the froth that was forming at the corner of it. She leaps into the air, blade in front, and is going to come down on your tiny form. (counting) That's 28 to hit on the first one.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: And a 28. Rolled 18s on both advantage ones.

ASHLEY: Okay okay okay okay.

MATT: Right, so two hits on you, you take 19 points of slashing damage from the first strike.

ASHLEY: That's not halved? No, it's only halved because he's–

MATT: Only because he's raging.

ASHLEY: I'm a barbarian, too!

(laughter)

MATT: 19 on the first strike, the second one is 13, so that's a total of 32 points of slashing damage to you. And that's going to end the barbarians' turn, everyone else finishes out surprise round, now we're back into full initiative, everyone's in play, top of the round, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. If I aim an arrow, it's at disadvantage?

MATT: If you aimed specifically for something? It would be at disadvantage and a minus five to hit.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to cast, I'm going to cast–

MATT: I mean, he's paralyzed, so it would have advantage, so it would cancel out, it would be just a regular attack at minus five.

LAURA: Okay, here's my question.

MATT: Yes?

LAURA: The siege arrow that Percy gave me, is that a magical weapon or a technical weapon?

MATT: It's a technical weapon, it's used essentially against structures, objects.

LAURA: So just structures.

MATT: It's an explosive in an arrow that is used primarily to destroy structures, yeah.

LAURA: So it wouldn't harm people?

MATT: I mean, it would hurt people like a regular arrow, and it might do a little bit extra, but–

LAURA: Not anything crazy?

MATT: Not that you know of, you don't have a full understanding of what the arrow's capable of. You did not create it.

TALIESIN: I gave you the big debrief with the arrow, I gave you the how-to–

LAURA: I know I know I know I know.

MATT: What're you doing? Hurry.

LAURA: Okay okay okay! Okay!

MATT: Vax, you're on deck.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns at third level into a group, the group. At Kevdak.

TRAVIS: No. Whatever you're going to do. Just do it.

LAURA: Just do it? I'm going to do it at Kevdak and anything that is close to him gets hit. Anything–

MATT: Within five feet of him? And you're doing it at what level?

LAURA: At level three.

MATT: Level three, so that's 3d10 points of piercing damage. All righty. Okay. So go ahead and make an attack against Kevdak, that is going to be– Yeah, with advantage because it's not an aimed shot, so go ahead and take it.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: Are you serious?

TALIESIN: You've been doing it all night, too. I figure, you know, it's only fair.

MATT: I've gotten like one.

TALIESIN: No, you've had more than one. We've been counting.

MATT: I've had two?

LIAM: Two for Kevdak's initiative and two for here.

MATT: That's true, that's true, I actually, could've been worse. All right, so. Go ahead and roll against Kevdak, that is going to be six, or 3d10 times two.

LAURA: Oh, 3d10? Oh.

SAM: Yeah, oh.

LAURA: 20, plus an additional– oh no, Hunter's Mark dropped because it's a concentration. But I am sneaking-attacking. An additional six. Oh, that's 12 then, because it doubles the dice.

MATT: Correct, yeah.

LAURA: So that's 32 points of damage.

MATT: 32 on him, reduce that to 16 piercing. All righty. And then all the rest of them have to make dexterity saving throws against your spell DC. What's your spell DC? This includes Grog.

LAURA: 15.

SAM: C'mon, Groggy.

TRAVIS: What, what was it?

LAURA: 15.

TRAVIS: What 15?

SAM: You got to make a save to get outta the way.

With inspiration.

LAURA: With inspiration.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: All right, so half damage to you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Which is halved again, one quarter, because there's a whole bunch of raging individuals.

TRAVIS: 32, halved is 16, which is eight.

MATT: Two of them succeed as well and also take eight damage.

LAURA: They're barbarians as well?

SAM: They're raging? They're raging.

MATT: And then one of them takes full damage at 16. All righty. So. That concludes your action. You want to move, or you going to stay where you are?

LAURA: If I fly on my broom, can I go down and grab Pike? As an action? I mean, as a movement?

MATT: It's going to be hard-pressed for you this turn to pull out your broom. I mean, you've been clutching your broom with you this whole time, you leaned it up against the wall as you hid down there?

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to stay where I am. And I'm going to hide against the window so nobody can see me.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Against on– yeah, like that.

MATT: That brings us to the next in the initiative order, Vax.

LIAM: All right, I want to preface this with, last week I misspoke, I thought I had one Luck left as I used it, but I got it backwards, so I have one Luck left this week in case I want to use it.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Go back and look at the videotape.

LIAM: You can. Well no, I said the wrong thing. But anyway, I want to use my first action to shove that archer backward off the roof.

MATT: Shove them?

LIAM: Yeah, shove them off.

MATT: All right, let's go ahead and do a shove action. Find myself on this one here– all right, so, for shove– I need you to go ahead and–

LIAM: Strength?

MATT: –make an athletics check.

LIAM: Athletics check.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: I'm going to trigger the Luck right now.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: That helped it, yeah. That gets it to 20.

MATT: To 20? That's going to be a 12.

LAURA and MARISHA: Yay!

MATT: So you shove it five feet. This way? All right, so it's going to go ahead and make an acrobatics–

LIAM: Ah, no, towards you, Matt, was my intention, yeah.

MATT: Towards me? All right, this way. Shove, they do make an acrobatics check but they do land off the side here. So they take eight points of damage being pushed off the side. All righty.

SAM: This board is incredible.

MATT: So that person's now fallen out of sight (yells), off the side.

LIAM: Now, question: am I able to use my bonus action to hide behind that chimney from Kevdak's view, and the archers are, am I able to do that? Just with Kevdak?

MATT: Yeah, the chimney should offer you enough, and you have a tree between the two of you anyway.

LIAM: Okay. So I hide behind the chimney.

MATT: Make a dexterity, make a stealth check.

LIAM: Stealth check. That's 25.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I would like to use my last action to throw at Kevdak, so I should still have advantage, because he's held, and I should have, if I'm hiding, it's a sneak attack, isn't it?

MATT: Well, sneak attack is if it's an attack with advantage anyway.

LIAM: Oh, my friend's still next to him. Oh, then, then, excuse me, I would like to throw two daggers.

MATT: Well, the shove was your action.

LIAM: Right, and I did the boots, so I have action-action-bonus action.

MATT: Okay, hold on. Let me see if it's– You don't have two actions, you have two attacks. Let me check and see if it is. There is a distinction there.

LIAM: Every millimeter counts tonight.

MATT: Yeah, this attack replaces one of them, if you have multiple attacks, with the attack action, which you don't. So you have your offhand bonus and the haste one, so you do have–

LIAM: Two attacks right now. Okay. So first one is an 18 to hit Kevdak, second one is a 25 to hit Kevdak.

MATT: Both hit.

LIAM: Both hit. Okay. So the first one, (counting).

MARISHA: That rogue damage. That rogue damage!

LIAM: I'm missing a big pile of dice! Eight, 12, 13, 19, 22, 28, 30, 36.

MATT: 36, half that to– I know, that brings it to 36, 18.

LIAM: Is it? It's not a crit, right?

MATT: No, but it's half-damage for him.

LIAM: Right, I have to be right up against him to get a crit, and the second dagger does eight halved to four.

MATT: Okay, four damage, gotcha. Total 22 points of damage on him. As he's taking all these hits. All right.

LIAM: And I have a little bit of movement, right?

MATT: You do have a little bit of movement, because you–

LIAM: I'll go fwoosh, right up against the flat side, right below Keyleth, pressed against the wall there.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Looking up her windskirts?

LIAM: No. Not that.

MARISHA: I've got a Marilyn Monroe thing going on in my air elemental, oh.

MATT: There we go. So you're now hidden up against that roof right below there, and your stealth check was 25 earlier, so we'll go with that.

LIAM: All right, maybe, maybe a quick look. Maybe a quick look.

MATT: Move the board a little bit for the people that are watching so they can get a better view here. There we go. So you're over here. Right here, Liam. All right. So! That brings us to–

LIAM: Oh, shit! Never mind.

SAM: Six more attacks!

MATT: No, you're done, your turn's over.

LIAM: Never mind, I didn't say it, I didn't say it so it doesn't matter.

MATT: Yeah. All right, so. This archer here is going to turn, looking over at the– let's see. He's currently handled, he's okay right there. This archer saw you firing. Over in that hide, he's going to turn to you.

TALIESIN: I'm looking at him right now, actually, I've got my gun in my left hand and I'm looking at him.

MATT: Archer's going to take two shots, pulling on his longbow, (arrow sounds). Two arrows at you, Percy.

TALIESIN: I smile the whole time. Bring it.

LIAM: Staring at him with that dead-in-the-eyes Percy look? Yeah.

TALIESIN: Do not fuck with Reed Richards. He will fuck you up.

MATT: That is a 20 to hit on the first one.

TALIESIN: That hits.

MATT: And a 25 on the second.

TALIESIN: That, that also hits.

SAM: Everybody's rolling high tonight. Except us.

MATT: First one is 11 points of piercing damage to you.

TALIESIN: 11 for the first one?

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: I take it in the shoulder.

MATT: All right. The second one is going to go ahead and do 13 points of piercing damage.

TALIESIN: That one I'm going to catch.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll for it.

SAM: Gloves of Missile Snaring!

TALIESIN: That's 14, so not only does it do no damage, I actually take it and catch.

MATT: You catch the arrow in front of your face.

TALIESIN: Snap it.

MATT: (laughs) That's amazing.

TALIESIN: And the gun is going to turn to look at him.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: Nice, Percy.

MATT: You can see from the distance the visage of this half-orc looks back as you do that and goes– And goes to shakily– hand reaching back for another arrow. This archer's going to go ahead and leap down onto here. Oh, you do get an attack of opportunity on him.

LAURA: He knocks down a tree in the process.

MARISHA: What a dick! That's a natural 18, so that's a 26.

MATT: Pretty sure that hits. Also rolled a natural 19 on the acrobatics check, so lands fine, but you do manage to do one attack worth of damage to him as he jumps down.

LIAM: Airsoft shot to the nuts.

MARISHA: I rolled double ones.

LAURA: Pathetic!

MARISHA: Plus five, so seven.

LAURA: That's not bad, that's not bad.

MARISHA: Little damage.

LIAM: Something to remember you by.

ASHLEY: Maybe he only has like ten hit points.

MATT: Cool, so your elemental form swings wide, manages to slam the bottom of them as they leap down, sending them into a spin, but they do manage to catch themself because they're quite acrobatic. In doing so, they step up to the very edge here to their friend, who is currently on the ground, who is also going to get up there, and they're both going to look at each other, pull their arrows out, and they're going to go ahead and make a series of strikes. Let's see. This one here is going to go ahead and is going to shoot at Pike, because Pike's on the ground. And this one's going to go ahead and strike at Grog, because it can't see Percy over there through the tree. So Grog–

LAURA: Natural one, natural one.

MATT: That is a 19.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: Misses you? (arrow sound) One arrow hits the bit of your shoulder armor right here and shatters off the bone. The second one, however, is a 26.

TRAVIS: Yes, that hits.

MATT: All right, so. From that one, you take, I don't like that, cocked. Nine points of piercing damage. Reduced to four. The one that's taking two strikes at you, Pike, because you're on the ground, now.

ASHLEY: It's also probably very hard for him to shoot through the people that are attacking me.

MATT: There is one individual attacking you that is on the other side of your body, so you're pretty visible from that point in time.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: She's really little.

MATT: However, the attack, because you are prone, it has disadvantage on the attack rolls with you because it's not within five feet of you. But it's going to go ahead and attempt to make it. Two 17s in a row. Plus ten, that's– sorry, not plus ten, plus eight on the archers, yeah, plus eight. So that's 25?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: And natural one on the other disadvantage, so that misses. You take 13 points of piercing damage from one of the arrows, (arrow sound). So it's going to do there. They finish their turns. This one is going to, being pushed, shoved off, come around here.

MARISHA: What? Who's that?

LAURA: Oh, that's the one you pushed off the roof.

MATT: Is going to come over this way and hide to the side. Just going to watch what's happening. That finishes the archers' turn. Kevdak. (grunts) Unable to do anything, is going to attempt to make a saving throw. And that is going to be a total of 18. What's your DC?

SAM: 20.

(yelling)

TRAVIS: Oh, Scanlan! I will make out with that fucking shirt, I swear to god!

SAM: I mean, my spell DC's 18, but with the Hand Cone of Clarity, okay.

TALIESIN: Don't talk him out of it.

SAM: Just making sure.

MATT: Oh man. All right, well, that ends Kevdak's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Okay. I, while maintaining concentration I can still use the wand to do things, yeah? So I'll use three charges of the Wand of Fireballs.

MATT: What're you doing now?

SAM: I'm aiming a Fireball right around there.

MATT: So moving up to here.

SAM: Oh yes, I guess I have to move forward to attack. Can I get a radius that includes Kevdak and these guys over here?

MATT: Yeah, you can do that.

SAM: But not Pike. And hopefully not Grog if my aim is true.

MATT: Yeah, if you get it there you can manage to hit all of them but Grog right there.

SAM: Okay.

ASHLEY: Go Scanlan!

MATT: One, two, three, four, five, six.

SAM: Okay. Three charges is 10d6.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll that. Kevdak automatically fails, because he's paralyzed.

LIAM: Yeah. MVP.

MATT: So does Greenbeard.

SAM: 34.

MATT: All right, so. 34, reduced to half because he's raging. That brings it to six, no, 17. All right, and then Greenbeard takes 34. The other ones there, they do not get advantages because they're all just fighters, that's a failure, failure, what was the spell DC on the wand? Because it's different from yours.

SAM: DC's 15, I wrote it down. DC 15.

MATT: Okay, so that's a success. Success. So two of them over there take– all right.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine, it'll be fine, things are working.

MATT: All righty. Great, so (explosion). Giant burst of flame hits, it actually sets fire to this entire structure. The wooden barricade is in flames, we'll say for the purposes of considering that.

SAM: There's flaming spikes on the field!

MARISHA: Flaming spikes!

MATT: All right, so. There we go. There is currently–

TALIESIN: I was really hoping you were going to come up with a– oh wow, that's actually– never mind, I am not disappointed at all.

MATT: So those are on fire.

MARISHA: Hah, 'I thought you were going to come out with a f– that, that, yeah, that works, that.'

MATT: All right. So.

SAM: I'm going to try to do the Pike move and jump down one level.

MATT: Down there? All right, make an acrobatics check.

SAM: Oh, Jesus. Okay, okay. 14– 19!

MATT: 19. You leap down and make it right there.

SAM: Okay. And I will, with the bonus, I will heal Grog with a Healing Word.

MATT: Healing Word, okay. What's the range on it?

SAM: Oh. 60 feet for Healing Word, I believe. Right?

MATT: He's just out of your range.

SAM: Okay, well then I will heal Pike, is that okay?

MATT: You can do that, you can shout over the side. You have to get into view of her, which means you have to move a little bit closer to the edge, but yeah.

SAM: Okay, I'll do that.

MATT: Okay, so you get about there, glance off the side. All right. Go for it.

SAM: I'll peek over the side and say, (singing) Never going to fuck you up, never going to let you down, never going to run around and not heal you.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll your heal for Pike. Grog, you're up next.

SAM: Yeah, seven points!

ASHLEY: Oh, I'll take it.

MATT: Hey, it all helps. All right. And with that, Grog, you're up.

LAURA: Oh my god. (singing) Natural crit.

TRAVIS: So in my frenzied reckless attacking, great weapon master, can I bring my axe up high and swing it for the first attack to his left side where dangly hand is?

MATT: You can, go for it. Your regular straight attack. You have advantage, and then it's disadvantage for that, so that brings it to a regular attack. Minus five.

TRAVIS: Disadvantage for the?

MATT: Because of the called shot.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: But then advantage because it's reckless?

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23? Hits. With the minus five?

TRAVIS: No. 18.

MATT: Still hits.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: You asshole.

MATT: So it's a d12.

TRAVIS: (counting) 20 for the first one. 30, with great weapon master.

LAURA: But you double your dice because it's a natural crit, because he's five feet away.

MATT: Because he's paralyzed and five feet away.

TRAVIS: 60.

LAURA: No, just your dice, double your dice.

MATT: This is with your axe, right? So with the axe, it's a d12 plus your raging bonus, plus your strength.

TRAVIS: 11. Which is seven. Or eight. Rage bonus is eight.

MATT: Well, the rage bonus should be plus– the total becomes plus–

TRAVIS: Oh sorry, the total bonus is eight.

MATT: Three plus– four, isn't it, right now? So it should be seven.

TRAVIS: That's why that's a seven. That's it. Right.

MATT: Yeah. You're not using your warhammer. You're not attuned to this weapon.

TRAVIS: Right, okay, so whatever.

MATT: So what'd you roll on the dice?

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11. Technically it's a critical hit. So, I mean, it's a critical hit, so you do your brutal critical. You roll two more d12s. So it was an 11 times two, that's 22, plus seven, that's 29, plus 2d12.

TRAVIS: Five, so that's 34.

MATT: 34.

TRAVIS: And a nine, so that's 43.

MATT: 43 reduced to half, that's 21 points of slashing damage.

TRAVIS: And that's the first one, called shot.

MATT: With that, thunk, the blade finds its way into his side, as you hear cracking on the rock below him, the sound of the left gauntlet, (cracking) hitting the bottom of the square. The fingers twitch in the gauntlet as he's currently standing there with his left arm bisected from the rest of his body.

LAURA: Does he shrink?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Dammit.

TRAVIS: Second attack, straight across his back.

MATT: Okay, straight into his back?

SAM: Does another smaller doll hand come out to replace it?

LAURA: Teeny tiny.

TRAVIS: That is a 22.

MATT: 22 hits.

TRAVIS: Yeah, 22. Okay. And that's four, so double this– 12, right? So four times two is eight. Plus four is 11. Math is a bitch. And two more of them? Because it's a critical? Okay. Seven. And a nine.

MATT: 28, half that is 14.

LAURA: Math! Math is fun!

MATT: So you're hacking into him, you see the wounds are opened and his body is shaking from the amount of pain that's wracking him at this time. He's still holding up against a lot of damage that's come to him, but he's starting to look a little rough.

TRAVIS: So I have my third frenzied attack for a bonus action, right? With my bonus action I have one superior healing potion. Can I take that?

MATT: You can, yeah. That will heal you, a superior, let's see. Superior is 8d4 plus eight.

TRAVIS: 8d4 plus eight?

MATT: Your superior, that's the expensive one you guys got.

LIAM: 8d4, four-sided, the four-sided. Pyramids.

TRAVIS: Fuck me, asshole. Fuck. Fuck me asshole! Seven. Nine. Ele– 12. 14. 16. 19. 20. 20.

MATT: All right, so you heal 20. All right, that ends your turn, Grog. All righty. Unless you want to move.

TRAVIS: Can I, can I– huh?

LAURA: You could pick it up.

TRAVIS: I can't pick it up, I can only move.

MATT: I mean, you have, you wouldn't be able to wield your axe.

LAURA: But can you put it in the Bag of Holding?

MATT: Next turn, if you want to try it.

TRAVIS: No, I'm going to, can I move, if I stay in his flank, if I move away from the three guys that are surrounding me, they're–

MATT: They're all going to get an attack on you.

TRAVIS: I'll stay.

MATT: All right. All right, so that finishes your turn, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yes, thank you.

MATT: Next up is Greenbeard, who is currently frozen in place, however, rolls an 18 plus five, as far as, his wisdom is plus ten, so that puts him at 28. So he resists the Hold Person and is currently no longer affected by that. All right, that finishes his turn, though, because that's the end of his turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right. This is going to be fun. That asshole who just shot me, I'm now aiming at him. And I'm going to push him off the roof, this'll be fun. So, pushing him off the roof, am I going to do extra damage to him, or am I?

LIAM: If he hits. If he hits the ground.

TALIESIN: Well, I mean, I'm debating whether or not to sharpshooter it to do– no, I think I'll just push him off the roof. It's funnier.

TRAVIS: I can feel my heartbeat in my face.

LAURA: I know, I can't tell if it's actually really warm in here or if we're all just really hot.

MATT: Probably a little bit of column A, a little bit of column B. What was it?

TALIESIN: 28 to hit.

MATT: 28 hits. Non-sharpshooter?

TALIESIN: Non-sharpshooter.

SAM: Dullshooter.

TALIESIN: But I'm doing a torso shot. So he gets no save, there's no save for the torso shot, he's going to take his damage and move ten feet away from me.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So. That's 14 points of damage, of piercing damage.

MATT: 14 points of piercing damage and he gets shoved off the back of the roof, he's going to make an acrobatics check, which he succeeds, so he lands down there and he only takes one point of damage from the fall, but. There you go.

TALIESIN: Fine. I'm going to reload, and now, what am I going to do? Let's see.

SAM: Jump down the chimney, deliver presents.

TALIESIN: Surveying the field, trying to make some decisions.

SAM: Help Pike!

TALIESIN: I can't. Well!

MARISHA: Can you hit Greenbeard?

TALIESIN: I can hit Greenbeard, I'm going to hit Greenbeard. He's got the magicky creepy thing, right?

LAURA: Yeah, he's gross. He's got mold on his neck.

MATT: Fungal moss on his whole neck and chest area.

TALIESIN: All right. Well, we'll see how things go. Let's do a sharpshooter shot at him right now. Let's see what a little bit of damage does to him. So sharpshooter with Retort. Don't miss. And my pistol goes (breaking sound). (groaning)

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: And I'm putting it away, so.

MATT: Okay, all right, so that's going to end your turn? Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: All right. Tornado's coming down the house. I'm going to hit these two guys with a Whirlwind again.

MATT: Right here?

MARISHA: Yep. 13 strength save.

MATT: 13 strength saves on both of them. Archers– all right. That's a natural 19 plus two, and two natural 19s in a row. Yeah, they both make their saves.

MARISHA: So nine plus– oh, one more d8. Plus another five, so that was 12 plus five is 17, plus another two, so 19 halved.

MATT: 19 halved? All right, so that puts them at nine points of bludgeoning damage each. Not really having much of an effect at this point in the fight, however, as you swirl around, picking up the debris from the roof as you can, it slams into them and they brace against it, but they still, glancing over their shoulder, realize that they've got to continue what they're doing now. The bigger threat appears to be out in front of them.

MARISHA: I'm staying in their space, by the way.

MATT: Right, right, so you're up in there. Up in their shit.

LAURA: Up in their business? Oh, it fell anyway! It happened.

MATT: There you go. No. All righty. Finished your turn? All right. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: All right. I'm going to put on my Sprinter's Boots.

MATT: They're on you, right?

ASHLEY: What's that?

MATT: So you're getting up, that's half your movement to stand up, all right.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Okay. And I'm going to run around towards the back of the house.

MATT: This way?

SAM: Door.

MATT: What're you doing? Ashley, what're you doing? So your Sprinter's Boots activate, which gives you double movement. Right? So you can move 50 feet. But you moved up, it took you 25 to stand up because it's half your speed to get up from prone, so you still have 25 feet you can move.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to go around to the side.

MATT: This side? All right, so you move. Here? Right?

ASHLEY: Yeah, as far as it'll–

MATT: Okay, so you rush over there. That one guy takes a swing at you as you rush by, gah!, or girl I should say, the female half-elf swings with the giant blade. That's going to be a 23?

ASHLEY: Fuck. Yeah.

MATT: Okay. As the blade smacks you from behind as you rush past, you suffer 14 points of slashing damage. In your back. But you keep running around the edge. All right, what are you doing?

ASHLEY: All right, I'm going to heal myself.

MATT: All righty.

ASHLEY: A little, doing a little rough here. I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself. At third level.

SAM: Isn't this exciting?

LIAM: Yes it is!

MARISHA: Good times, guys.

SAM: We're fighting a horde of goliaths!

MATT: What you got, Ashley?

ASHLEY: What's that?

MATT: What you got, what you doing?

ASHLEY: Oh, I cast Cure Wounds on myself.

MATT: And you're done? You're healed up? Okay, that's the end of your turn.

ASHLEY: I can't do any, don't I have a bonus action?

MATT: You have a bonus action still if you want.

LAURA: You got your spiritual weapon still.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to use my spiritual weapon on him again, on Kevdak.

MATT: Okay, so go ahead and swing for the attack on that one.

ASHLEY: Okay, and I'm going to use Guided Strike?

MATT: Well, I mean, yeah, you have advantage. You have advantage on the attack, by the way, he's paralyzed. He's still paralyzed.

LAURA: Oh, that's good!

ASHLEY: It's still under it.

LAURA: Don't you add anything to it?

MATT: Add your spell attack.

ASHLEY: Oh, yeah, well then I'm great. Fuck, I'm forgetting everything, I'm so nervous!

MATT: It's okay, you've been away for a while.

ASHLEY: Okay. Yeah, we're good to go. 22.

MATT: 22? That hits. So go ahead and roll your 3d8, I think it is, no, 4d8.

LAURA: 4d8.

MATT: Plus your wisdom modifier, which is plus– what's your wisdom modifier?

SAM: She's doing math, give her a second.

TALIESIN: Dice are doubled, too? The weapon's within five feet.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

SAM: (nerdy voice) Oh, the weapon's within five feet.

LAURA: Do you add the spell attack bonus to it?

TALIESIN: Suck it, nerd. Dear god.

MATT: No, it's not attack, it's your wisdom modifier, but what's the dice, the dice are doubled because it's a critical hit.

TRAVIS: 18.

LAURA: Times two.

MATT: 36, half that to 18. Then add your wisdom modifier.

LAURA: Plus four!

MATT: Plus four. All right, so. Half of that would be two, so 20. 20 points of damage to him from the strike of that. All righty, that finishes your turn.

TRAVIS: Does your piece of paper back there look like Stephen Hawking's chalkboard?

MATT: Kind of, right now, yeah.

SAM: Wow.

LAURA: That's actually way more organized than I thought it would be.

TRAVIS: Young Stephen Hawking. You horrible, horrible person.

MATT: First, the woman who just swung past you is going to go ahead and rush around the corner as well and follow you, since you got out of the way. Rush into and go after you, Pike. The three that are on you, Grog, are still going to, after watching you cut one of Kevdak's arms off, roar angrily around you, all three of them (roar), and go into another round of angry, angry strikes against you.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: All right, so that comes to you, Grog, since you did reckless attack on him for the stuff, they all have advantage on you anyway, so all the attacks are with advantage, that's six attacks.

MARISHA: Six attacks.

MATT: That's a natural 20.

(yelling)

MATT: 26 on the second. 23 on the third.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: 24 on the fourth.

TALIESIN: Can you roll poorly?

MATT: 26 on the fifth.

SAM: Wow.

LIAM: Welcome to our production of Julius Caesar.

MATT: No, they all, five hits and one crit.

LAURA: What?

MATT: They all hit, yeah. Reckless attack puts you in a bad position when you're surrounded with guys that can do multiple hits that are also barbarians.

LIAM: Here it comes.

MARISHA: Get that barbarian's resistance.

MATT: We'll do the crit first on you.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: You already used the Stone's Resistance. Oh, the barbarian, yeah. So that'll help.

TRAVIS: Don't say the word yet.

MARISHA: Well.

SAM: Is it that thing where you die?

MATT: Seven plus eight, 15, reduced to half, that's seven. So I'll give you the direct amounts here. So this is with the reduction. So that's seven points of slashing damage. Another seven.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Another seven.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Here we go. That's a nine.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Not that great. That's a six.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: And then now the crit.

LAURA: I thought you said the first one was a crit.

LIAM: That's what you said.

MATT: And then I thought differently but I didn't say it out loud, but because you're calling me on it, I'll let it happen.

ALL: No, no, no.

LIAM: Are you saying what's in your head is different than what's in my head?

MATT: Okay. That was double sixes. So that's 22 plus eight is 30, so 15 points of slashing damage. On all those strikes against you. Pike? Two attacks on you.

SAM: You still alive there?

MATT: That's a natural 20. And that's 15.

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: No, so. That is a one and two, so that's three, six plus eight, you take 14 points of slashing damage from this barbarian female who's all up on your grill.

ASHLEY: I hate this bitch!

MATT: Ending that turn, it's now the druid's turn over here. End of surprise round, the druid's going to rush forward here. And do a 5th-level Cure Wounds. On Kevdak.

TALIESIN: No!

MARISHA: I mean, he doesn't have an arm, he doesn't have the arm. That was– he can't get that back.

LIAM: He can't get the bone or stuff, I hope.

MARISHA: I know, how does that work if you only have half your–

LIAM: Ask that guy.

MATT: All right, we're looking at 5d8.

SAM: You know what? Fuck it. I'll Counterspell that.

MATT: Yeah, it's too high, or no, okay. So. It's at a fifth level. Go ahead and roll for it, adding, so it's d20 plus five, plus two because of your bardic knowledge.

LAURA: That's not concentration, it doesn't do anything.

SAM: It's not concentration, right, Counterspell? So what do I do, just a d20?

MATT: Roll a d20, add seven.

SAM: 17.

MATT: Let me check here real fast. Plus the spell's level. Yeah. It's dispelled.

SAM: It's dispelled?

MATT: Yeah, Counterspell.

(cheering)

MATT: It was 15, was what he had to beat.

MARISHA: MVP this fight!

TALIESIN: Oh my god, Sam. Oh my god.

LIAM: Scanlan's going to Disneyworld!

MATT: Okay. (laughs) All right. That ends his turn. Now. So. This guy here, let's see. Got to stand up for this one, pardon me.

SAM: Oh, shoot.

LAURA: Shit. Shit.

ASHLEY: Should we just take a break or something?

SAM: The benches we're sitting on are covered in so much ass sweat right now.

MATT: We'll say for the sake of this, going to put him up there.

SAM: Who dat? Who's up there? What's going on right there?

MATT: This guy jumps up this way.

SAM: Hey wait, well, that's where I am, I don't want him to come up there!

MATT: Too bad.

TALIESIN: Does he get an attack of opportunity?

MATT: These two guys rush forward and grab these innocents here.

LAURA: Oh my god. This is where it all turns.

ASHLEY: Because I fucking fell off the fucking roof.

MATT: Yeah, into the middle here, towards the fire.

LIAM: Head of the snake.

MARISHA: Into the fire? What?

MATT: Pushing them towards the fire with what remains of their movement. Let's see, this guy's going to move in towards Grog there. This archer's going to get back up–

SAM: (belches) Pardon me. Was that out loud?

MARISHA: It's okay, we're not live.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Well actually, no, archers aren't part of this movement. This guy here's going to move into Grog there.

SAM: Now he has seven people attacking him.

MATT: I don't know what to tell you, man. These guys here, seeing, hah. This guy's going to be up with this one here. This guy can't really get over there, so he's going to go ahead and rush forward.

LAURA: How many people are there? I feel like there's so many more people than there were.

TALIESIN: How do you own this many models?

LAURA: Why are you doing this to Pike? Stop hurting her!

SAM: Only you can protect her.

ASHLEY: We should've killed the guys first.

TALIESIN: There's no should'ves, this is what we got.

ASHLEY: Okay guys, we can do this, we can do this.

MARISHA: It was going pretty well.

LAURA: Why did it all turn?

MARISHA: How did he fucking scale that fast?

LAURA: Because he can roll acrobatics just like we can!

MATT: Because they're– yeah, you guys can do it, they can do it too. And they're pretty strong. So he basically runs up, puts the sword on his back, jumps up onto the roof, pulls the weapon. He doesn't manage to get an attack on you, because it took all of his movement to get up there. But he gets up there.

MARISHA: No one wants to fuck with the elemental? Really? No one?

MATT: Right now, you're not a huge threat to them at the moment and they're both going to focus actually on you, Scanlan. When it gets around to their turn, though. This guy's going to go ahead and pull both of these innocent folk in front of them as a shield. This guy's going to get freaked out, rush around the building and try to escape there. Okay. So! Bringing us into the combat portion of the round, Grog, you have two more attacking you. This is the bladestorms.

TRAVIS: Bladestorms?

MATT: With advantage, that's going to be a 14.

TRAVIS: That'll miss. I haven't said that much tonight.

MATT: 18?

TRAVIS: That misses.

MATT: So first one, both attacks swinging across you, you're feeling it on your back, but it's catching most of your armor and part of your flesh that is nice and calloused and does not really do any damage. The second one rolls a 20. Second one, and second attack on the second one is a 21.

TRAVIS: That hits, yeah.

MATT: Yeah. Okay. So you get a critical and hit on this one. So this is the bladestorm. Critical is going to be 16, eight points of slashing damage on that one. And the next one's going to be four points of slashing damage. This is already halved. Just so you know. So that's that round there. Against Pike, only one of them could get to you and still attack this round, so Pike, that's 19?

ASHLEY: Misses.

MATT: And that's going to be a 15.

ASHLEY: Misses.

MATT: So one strikes against you, hits the back of the armor and streaks off, so you spin around as the second blade comes around and you deflect it with the shield angrily.

MARISHA: Yes!

ASHLEY: This is so fucking stressful!

MATT: That brings us back to the top of the initiative order. Vex, you're up.

SAM: What, they just approached me, they didn't attack me?

MATT: Oh, there was the one guy that got up there with movement. Thank you for the reminder. So before that happens, actually, reminder, this one did have enough movement to get up there and still get attacks off on you.

LAURA: Okay, he's attacking Percy.

SAM: No, he's attacking me.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: That's going to be a 13 with the first strike.

SAM: That misses.

MATT: Misses, second one's going to be a 22.

SAM: That just hits.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, that's going to be 17 points of slashing damage from that greatsword, whoosh. I need you to go ahead and make a concentration check.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: Yeah, you have Warcaster, so you have advantage on that.

LAURA: Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: 15– plus anything?

MATT: It's a constitution.

SAM: Ooh. Plus two. 17.

MATT: So 17.

TALIESIN: That's pretty good.

MATT: Going to check it real fast, concentration here– plus ten, half the damage you take. So that would be ten, yeah, you maintain concentration.

LAURA: Oh, thank god.

TRAVIS: We might as well just be doing this on a treadmill, because I think I'm pretty close to 130?

MATT: All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to fly out of the window on the broom.

LIAM: The roof blows off.

LAURA: Out of the window.

MATT: Where do you want to go?

LAURA: I'm going to fly down and I'm going to shout, Grog! Raise your arm! And I'm going to go down and I'm going to hit his hand with the Pokeball.

LIAM: Shit.

MATT: You're going to scoot by here?

LAURA: I'm above, I want to be high up in the air but low enough that I can reach down and touch the locket to Grog's hand.

MATT: Okay, it's a good thing Kevdak is paralyzed, because otherwise he'd get an attack on you.

LAURA: I know, I know.

MATT: This will put you in range for their strikes, so you're going to have to stay in place or move past and suffer five attacks of opportunity.

LAURA: Wait, all of them can attack, but I'm in the air!

MATT: But for you to get low enough to hand him that, they all have big double greatswords, and they're– well, half of them are half-giants. So you can do this. As you swish up, which you've already said you're going to do, you fly up and you reach down.

LAURA: With the locket and I hit.

MATT: With the locket and you hand over to him, do you–

LAURA: I don't hand it to him.

MATT: Okay. So you just hold it there?

LAURA: I'm putting Grog in the fucking locket.

MATT: Oh.

TRAVIS: She's trying to medevac me.

MATT: I misunderstood what you were trying to do. All right, so, what–

LAURA: I want to fly by and poof and keep going.

MATT: What's it say again?

LAURA: It's a wisdom save, but if it's a willing person they can go in.

MATT: Yeah. So, Grog, are you willing?

TRAVIS: Well. Yes.

MATT: And with that, as you reach down and touch Grog with it, you see Grog's form shimmer for a second into dark shadow, and then vanish inside–

LAURA: And I want to fly on past and go up to the next roof.

MATT: Okay. So Grog is currently off the table as he's locked inside the gauntlet.

LAURA: Where should I go, where should I go?

MATT: Where are you going? As you rush away, you do get–

LAURA: I'm going to fly back into the– I'm going to fly around the back of the big building.

MATT: Back here, you mean?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. We'll say for the purposes of this, you are back here.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: As you fly off from doing this, all of them swing wide at you, that's five attacks of opportunity against you. That's 20.

LAURA: Hits.

MATT: That is 17.

LAURA: It did? What'd you, what'd you give me?

TRAVIS: Yeah, she gave you, she handed out, before we moved out.

LAURA: Oh, that's right, she gave me a blessing.

MATT: Well, it's Aid, you have 15 extra hit points. So that's what it is.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

ASHLEY: I thought it was the armor class goes up one.

SAM: I got 15 extra hit points.

MATT: Yeah, Aid just gives you guys extra hit points. So anyway. 17. Doesn't hit. All right. So three more attacks. That was cocked. 19?

LAURA: It's my armor class.

MATT: All right, 26?

LAURA: Fuck. Balls. Shit. Mother bitch.

MATT: And that's 19 again. So four attacks hit you.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: First one is for 14 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Next one, hoo, that's eight, 12 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: Doubled. Halved.

TALIESIN: Stop it! Don't be helpful!

MATT: Nine plus four– another 13 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: Dammit. Okay.

MATT: And the last one. That's going to be 15 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: Great, cool, great. I'm fine and I'm just going to keep going.

MATT: You streak off as all these blades hammer into your side, cutting the bottom of your feet, one of them hits you in the back of the neck and curves across your lower back, and as you pull away clutching it, you look at your hand with the blood pooling in the middle of your palm, and you look at the gem with a faint glimmer of a form of a human inside the gem that's currently mingling with all the blood that's smeared across your body, as all of a sudden you coast around, through the air, the wind whirling past you, and you spin around towards the top of the Margrave's estate. And you can hear the blood in your body– (heartbeat sounds)– in your ears as you start getting a little dizzy and realizing just how rough you are at the moment from that exchange.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Wow.

MATT: Technically you'd probably be higher than this. Up there, if you wanted to fly around. Okay. So. That ends your turn?

LAURA: That– yeah.

MATT: Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm going to use my bonus action to dash, and hasted I get 24 squares of movement on this board.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: I'm going to drop off the roof, staying along the wall, I should be able to take a diagonal at that corner and totally avoid Greenbeard.

MATT: Oh, you mean, dodge off–?

LIAM: I want to go, no, I want to go straight this way. Towards the tree, and drop.

MATT: Towards the tree, drop off here?

LIAM: All right. Yep. I want to go along the wall. I can swoop around it and avoid Greenbeard, I'm going to run past this barbarian, she'll probably take an attack but I'm wearing that cloak so she's at disadvantage. I'm going to run up to Kevdak and I'm going to stab him twice– I should get sneak attack damage and a crit, because he's frozen.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: Then I'm going to run the fuck out. That's what I'd like to do.

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: You rush up, you manage to avoid Greenbeard, there is one of these guys there who was holding his place, seeing what things were going on, he had no target at the moment, was staying nearby. With disadvantage, that is 21?

LIAM: Misses. 22.

MATT: 22!

LIAM: Daggers out, hasted. Raven Queen armor, fuck y'all.

MATT: As you dart past, this blur of dark motion swings towards you, and where it is about to catch some of the armor, there's a burst of black feathers that lift behind where the blade struck through. As you dart up right into the face of Kevdak, who's like, (strained sound), trying desperately to resist the effect of this. Go for it. Advantage on the attacks.

LIAM: Okay. Advantage on all these, right right right.

LAURA: Oh my god. Ermagerd.

LIAM: Ermagerd. 22 for the first, which hits. Ah, yeah, they both hit. And 26 for the second. First one. Three plus– oh my god. Three plus– Eight, ten, 16, 22, 23, 29, 32. Which is doubled to 64 plus six.

MATT: Well, 32 plus six, because he takes half-damage.

LIAM: Right, well, let's get it up to the top and then halve it. So 32 to 64 plus six is 72 halved.

MATT: Right, 72 halved puts you at 36.

LIAM: That's the first, and then the second one does two plus six is eight, no, two and, da-ba-ba-ba–

LAURA: Four, right?

LIAM: That's just the dice is doubled, so four, it's ten.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I'd like to use the rest of, well, go ahead.

MATT: So yeah, so as you rush up, you slam your dagger square into the side of his body, and as you push it inside, you can see his eyes glancing back down towards you, held in place, his arm broken, still dangling from the little elements of ligaments that keep it shifting there. With the impact of the slam, it swings from the sheer force of the blow. As you push the blade to the hilt and even further in, you feel your hands actually push into the wound itself about an inch, your fingers getting dark and wet with the crimson gore of the interior of his body. As you push up inside, you pull back, pulling the blade around, in your pommel, and jam it over the top of the shoulder, into the side of his body, the muscle flexes from the tension of the Hold Person spell, managing to reduce a portion of the damage, but it left a pretty serious wound.

LIAM: Any movement I have left, I want to use to run up to the other side of the wall that Keyleth is on. If I have enough, I'll climb up, if not, I'll go behind that barrel. But if I, before I go, quietly I say to Kevdak, your fate is sealed here today, my friend.

MATT: Okay. He does not get an attack of opportunity on you because he is paralyzed, and the guy already took one against you so he already used his reaction, you rush past him. You do not have enough movement to get to the top, but you do get to the corner right where the barrel is. Okay?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: That ends your turn. It's now the archers' turn.

LAURA: Oh god.

SAM: Oh god. So much bloodshed.

TRAVIS: Can we do some recreational drugs or something? Take the edge off?

LAURA: We're going to, we're all going to die.

SAM: All we got to do is get Kevdak and they're fucking lost.

TALIESIN: I've got a Scrooge McDuck-sized pit of Xanax at my house I'm just going to dive into.

LAURA: Once we kill him, his gauntlets are going to be there, we have to go in and get his gauntlets.

SAM: Yeah, that's a point, that's a point made. You know who could get them, who's fast and strong? Trinket.

MATT: This guy here is going to go ahead, he's out of range of you, Marisha. Shoving this barrel off the side to try and get away from you.

TALIESIN: Attack of opportunity.

MATT: Marisha, you do get an attack of opportunity, it does fall and hit the barrel next to you, I mean, next to Vax. It doesn't hit you, but it spooks you momentarily as it slams onto the barrel next to your side and rolls off.

MARISHA: Rolling terribly.

MATT: What'd you get, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Ten total.

MATT: Ten total? Misses.

MARISHA: Oh no, oh, I had to roll to hit. I'm sorry, I was rolling damage.

MATT: What'd you roll?

MARISHA: I didn't roll to hit. To hit, that is, plus, 16 to hit?

MATT: 16 versus the archer? 17. Just misses.

SAM: You really… blew it.

TALIESIN: To be fair, she's a bit winded.

SAM: Oh, she's winded, that's nice, that's nice.

MATT: They're both, having now made out the connection between the mooning and Kevdak holding himself in place, they're both trying to take you out. One of them has disadvantage because you're in its spot and it couldn't get away from you, it had nowhere to go really. So one's taking two attacks at you, Scanlan. That is going to be, heh, a 12.

SAM: Miss.

MATT: And a 26.

SAM: Hit.

MATT: The other one's going to have two attacks with disadvantage against you. That's, even with disadvantage, that's a 21.

SAM: Hit.

MATT: And the other one with disadvantage is a 15.

SAM: Hit.

LAURA: What? 15 hits you?

SAM: I am not wearing some things.

MATT: Yeah, it's true. So three attacks hit you.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: The first one is going to be, all right. That's a full ten plus– 14 points of piercing damage.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Go ahead and roll your concentration.

SAM: Oh, yeah, that.

MATT: So roll and add two.

SAM: Roll and add two, or?

MATT: Because it's plus your constitution.

SAM: Oh. 19.

MATT: 19? Okay. The next attack deals five points. Go ahead and roll again with advantage.

SAM: 19.

MATT: Damn. All right. And the third one. Yeah, what's your constitution saving throw, it's plus two, right?

SAM: Yep.

MATT: Last one does 11 points of piercing damage to you. And make another series of checks for concentration.

SAM: 17.

MATT: Fine.

LAURA: We're fine, we're okay, we're okay?

MATT: That Warcaster feat, man. Okay, that finishes those two guys. This one here's off to the side, this one's going to go ahead and turn around this way and get around the edge. Actually, he's going to–

LAURA: I'm going to start crying.

MATT: This one over here didn't notice you swing by over the top, swoosh overhead. It does see Percy on the roof that shot it, you do have partial cover, so. We'll say that's half cover, so plus two to your AC against this guy's two arrow shots against you. All righty. That is 26 to hit.

TALIESIN: Well, that hits.

MATT: All right. Second strike. Same thing, 26.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: 18 and 18.

TALIESIN: 18 and 18? I can use the– yeah, I only have one reaction, so. All right.

MATT: So that's nine points of piercing damage with the first shot.

TALIESIN: I'll take that.

MATT: And 14 points of piercing damage with the second one.

TALIESIN: I'll fight that one, I'll contest that.

SAM: This has been a long fight, guys.

LIAM: No, this is like 30 seconds later, if that.

MATT: What are you contesting it with?

TALIESIN: Gloves of Missile Snaring.

MATT: How many times can you use that?

TALIESIN: It's a reaction. It doesn't say, I can make an attempt to catch.

MATT: Yeah. So go ahead and make the attempt.

TALIESIN: That's 14 points?

MATT: 14 points, yeah.

TALIESIN: Dexterity modifier, 11, so I can reduce it to three points of damage. I still got hit, so.

MATT: So go ahead and mark that. Okay. And this guy over here at the very top moves over as well and is going to go ahead and take two more shots at Scanlan. Since there's currently not a whole lot he can see in the area that's a threat to him, near this gleaming beacon of pink and purple up on the rooftop another friend of his is currently whaling on, so. Two attacks against you. That's going to be a 19.

SAM: Hit.

MATT: And 23.

SAM: Hit.

MATT: All right. You take another six points of piercing damage. Go ahead and make your–

SAM: Yeah, 20.

MATT: What was it? 20? Okay. Second one is 14 points of piercing damage.

TALIESIN: Oh, Jesus.

SAM: Six.

MATT: And with that, the Hold Person fades, concentration lost from the barrage of arrows from the nearby Herd archers. You hear a roar across the battlefield, (roars). Currently with one busted arm, no arm on the other side, Kevdak is screaming in terrible pain and anger.

LIAM: But he's great at riverdance.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, archers finish their turn. It comes to Kevdak's turn. He's going to go ahead and use his bonus action to go ahead and use Second Wind. Heals 17 hit points on that, rolled a ten. He is then going to– let's see. Huh.

MARISHA: No one's around him.

MATT: Yeah, he has no axe. He reaches over and picks up your hammer.

TALIESIN: With his broken hand?

MATT: Oh, yeah, no, actually no, he can't do that right now.

SAM: With his beak.

LAURA: He kicks the hammer.

MARISHA: He, yeah. He teabags it.

TRAVIS: He kills one of his subordinates for letting him–

MATT: Yeah, he turns to one of his subordinates to the side and says, “One of you, pick that up. The rest of you, kill them.” And looks over to the other two innocent that are on the ground right now. He then is going to go ahead and start moving over towards Greenbeard.

SAM: Because he moves.

MATT: Yes?

SAM: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?

LAURA: Oh, the Spiritual Weapon!

MATT: A Spiritual Weapon is technically not a creature. It doesn't get a reaction. It's only on a bonus action you get a chance to attack with it. Yeah. He's going to move over here, around the flames, up to Greenbeard. Okay. That finishes his turn, there's not much else he can do at this point. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Pike, how you doing?

ASHLEY: I'm at 20. I'm pretty rough. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. I have an idea to try and get out of it if I need to.

SAM: Kevdak or Pike?

LAURA: They're all clustered right there. If you have something that does area.

SAM: They are, I don't care about them, I just care about Kevdak.

LIAM: End the fight, Scanlan.

LAURA: Well, Greenbeard can probably heal Kevdak.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: That's probably what he's going over there for.

SAM: I don't think I'll be able to do a Fireball without hitting either Kiki or that innocent.

MARISHA: I'm fine, I haven't taken any damage.

TALIESIN: She's up 60 bonus hit points.

MARISHA: No, I'm up 90 bonus hit points and I haven't taken any damage.

SAM: All right. I'll do the same thing, then. Shit.

MATT: What're you doing, Scanlan?

SAM: Yep. The Wand of Fireballs again.

MATT: How many–

SAM: I have seven charges, I've used three, I'll use three more.

MATT: Okay, where, in the center here at Kevdak?

SAM: Yes, Kevdak is the center square.

MATT: That would hit that archer.

SAM: Would it hit that innocent?

MATT: It would hit those innocents there, both of those innocents.

SAM: Okay. Angle it a little over towards Kiki so it doesn't hit the innocent?

MATT: Yeah, with your angle, you could angle it this way.

SAM: Oh, would it hit Vax that way?

MATT: Yeah, it would.

LIAM: It's all right. Do it.

SAM: Okay, I'll kill the innocent.

LIAM: Do it!

SAM: I'll kill the innocent.

LIAM: I can dodge that shit! I can dodge that shit!

LAURA: Scanlan! Don't hurt the innocents!

SAM: I said it already, it's too late.

MATT: Yep. So Scanlan fires the Fireball at Kevdak, it detonates.

LIAM: I could've avoided it completely.

SAM: Okay. Yes. Do I just roll? 10d8.

TALIESIN: 10d6.

SAM: Six. Six, yes.

MATT: Kevdak, save for that, yeah, he makes his save.

MARISHA: Gah, fucking fucker.

MATT: Because it's DC 15. Greenbeard also makes his save.

SAM: 42.

MATT: 42. Damn. (counting) Ten. So Kevdak takes ten points of fire damage.

SAM: Ten? He made his save.

MATT: Because he made his save for half damage, and then he takes half that from his rage. Greenbeard takes 21. He's looking rough, Greenbeard is now burned and (grunts) is looking a bit frenzied at this point. The archer does make the save, high dex, they take 21 points on him.

SAM: (belches) Pardon me.

MATT: This archer there also makes it. However, that one's taken– no, that one hasn't taken a lot of damage, it was that one over there. This one here does also make his save.

SAM: Ah, Jesus. These guys are unkillable.

MARISHA: They all made their saves.

LAURA: Surprise attack would've been really good on these guys.

MATT: That guy there does make his save, they're all rolling 15 or above on this.

LAURA: God.

MATT: This guy here rolls a natural 20 on his save.

LAURA: Fuck all of them!

MATT: Well, that was the innocent there.

ALL: Oh.

MARISHA: Good job, guy.

MATT: It's still 21 points of damage for a peasant, he is incinerated and you hear the horrible scream of pain as–

SAM: Hey, we killed something, guys!

LAURA: That was the first thing we killed in this fight.

MATT: First thing you killed in this fight was an innocent villager.

LAURA: That is terrible.

MATT: And with that scream that echoes in the back of your mind, knowing the decision you made, a little part of your heart sinks in your chest. However, Keyleth, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity save as well.

MARISHA: Yeah. On it. Natural 19.

MATT: All right, so you take 21 points of fire damage.

SAM: Even though I can't see her–

MATT: And actually, that guy technically would be– yeah, that innocent there would also be in range. He doesn't make his save, he is also incinerated. Both of them burn.

MARISHA: Whoops.

LAURA: Two peasants dead.

SAM: Sorry.

MATT: All right. So.

SAM: Even though I can't see her, I'm so connected to her, can I try to heal Pike with a big shout?

MATT: As a Healing Word spell? A creature you can see within range, so no, you have to be able to see her to aid her.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Which you could do if you wanted to risk it.

SAM: I don't know if I want to move, this guy is on me.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but you're also getting pummeled by arrows.

LAURA: That's true.

TALIESIN: So maybe standing there is not necessarily the–

LAURA: Like, up and over would probably be better.

SAM: He's going to take a whack at me.

TALIESIN: He's going to take a whack at you in a minute anyway.

LIAM: Can't you stay alongside him the whole time?

LAURA: Yeah. If you're within five feet of him, he doesn't attack.

LIAM: Just circle him.

SAM: Okay. I'll circle. I don't know, I can't even really see where I am, but. Yeah.

LIAM: Just going around him. Kitty-corner.

MATT: So yeah, you get over this side here.

LIAM: Oh, he's dead.

LAURA: (laughs) Every time.

MATT: All right, so you move around him. And you see Pike now surrounded by a number of the barbarians.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: You can use your bonus action to heal her if you'd like.

SAM: You have some plan or something, right?

ASHLEY: I mean, who the fuck knows if that's going to fucking work?

SAM: My healing is barely anything. So I'll inspire you instead, I think.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll take it, I'll take it.

MATT: How do you inspire her?

SAM: I sing, (singing) Well then I saw her mace, now I'm a believer, without a trace, of blood in her hair. I'm in love.

ALL: (singing) Ooh-ahh.

SAM: (singing) I'm a believer.

MATT: (singing) Take your d10.

ASHLEY: (singing) I'll take my d10, use it later.

MATT: Ends Scanlan's turn. That's the end of your turn. Grog, you are sealed. You have no turn.

LAURA: Sorry, Grog. I was trying to keep you from dying.

MATT: Brings us to Greenbeard, who's in a rough place right now. Greenbeard is going to go ahead and finally do something.

SAM: God dammit, he's going to heal fucking Kevdak. It's a new round.

MATT: “Kevdak. Protect the Herd.” And he reaches forward and touches him.

ASHLEY: Fuck that guy.

SAM: Yeah, I'll counterspell that too.

MATT: As he's right there. That's Heal.

MARISHA: No, I knew it, I knew it, it's going to heal him for all of his hit points.

SAM: I'm counterspelling.

MATT: Okay, so that's a 6th-level. Go ahead and roll, add seven, and you have to get 16 or higher.

SAM: Can I cast it at a higher level?

MARISHA: Heal is a 7th-level spell.

MATT: What level are you casting Counterspell at?

SAM: Do I know what this spell is?

MATT: No, Heal, 70. Old version was almost all your hit points.

SAM: Fifth level.

MATT: At fifth level? All right, so you're casting it at fifth level. Counterspell, mark that off. Less than or equal to the level of the spell slot you use. So it is fifth level, doesn't do anything. Because what fifth level does is it increases the equal level of the spell to cancel. Fifth level, it's a 6th-level spell, so now you just roll. So now roll. Add seven. You're trying to get 16 or higher.

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: What is it, what is it, what is it?

SAM: It was a three. But I get advantage.

MATT: No.

SAM: Because I'm wearing this.

MATT: With that, Greenbeard reaches out and touches Kevdak. Kevdak roars in pain as all of a sudden the muscles and tendons in his arm reform and in his still-wounded but now-functional arm, he crushes the gauntlet in his hand. “Bring me the other!”

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: And you see the other one who was over there reach for the gauntlet.

MARISHA: God dammit, I was about to handle that. I was about to handle that! Who's bringing him the gauntlet?

MATT: Greenbeard is now going to go ahead and back behind here, trying to get behind the tree as he now notices he's in the open.

LIAM: Burn him up.

MATT: Done his business in that moment. No, as a bonus action, he's going to go ahead and turn into an earth elemental.

MARISHA: Who is?

LAURA: Greenbeard.

MARISHA: Fucking druids! Fucking druids!

ASHLEY: Kill him! Kill him, Keyleth.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Everything just flipped.

MATT: Now. Percy, you're up.

SAM: Kill Kevdak.

TALIESIN: I was going to say, I can't kill Kevdak, he just healed for–

MATT: Kevdak was on the cusp.

ASHLEY: But now he has 70 extra hit points.

MATT: He does.

LAURA: He heals 70 extra hit points? Oh, not 70 percent of his hit points? We can still take him, we can still take him.

TALIESIN: Oh, seven hit points.

ALL: 70.

TRAVIS: 140. We have to hit him for 140.

TALIESIN: He healed him 70 hit points. Is he still raging, though?

MATT: Yeah. He continues to rage if he's taken damage since the last round. He's taken a lot of damage.

MARISHA: We've got to get those fucking gauntlets.

LAURA: Don't let him get the gauntlets, Percy!

MARISHA: Where's the gauntlet, can we see the gauntlet on the battlefield?

MATT: It's over here right now, it's on the ground.

LIAM: He told somebody to pick it up, but they didn't do it yet.

TALIESIN: Okay. No, I can't do that, can I? I look at the guy next to me, I'm going to take a look– oh god. I'm going to take a running jump off the front of the house.

SAM: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Straight into the–

LAURA: In the kill box, you're going into the kill box?

SAM: You're not fast, you're not a fast person!

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to jump for the other house.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make an acrobatics check. Oh right, this is a jump, so this would be athletics.

TALIESIN: Is it not an acrobatics, I can't do an acrobatics, I can't parkour this? My hands are free.

MATT: I'll say you can make an acrobatics with disadvantage or an athletics with a single roll. Since this is actually the strength of the run, it's not a big distance, so it's not a huge DC for a jump, but it's your call. What do you want to do?

TALIESIN: I'll take an athletics. What do you think, athletics or? Oh, no no. I'll acrobatics it with disadvantage.

MATT: All right. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I. Yeah, no.

MATT: What'd you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a one.

MATT: You rolled a one? So, as you leap off the side, your foot hits the edge of the tile, and the blade behind you swings. Which I believe is going to hit you with a 20. Is that your AC?

TALIESIN: My AC's 18.

MATT: 18, yeah. You take seven plus four, 11 points of slashing damage.

TALIESIN: I'm fine with that.

MATT: The blow, however, is just enough to throw you off-kilter, and you go plummeting down into the alleyway.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: Falling prone. You can use your movement to get back up, the remainder of your movement, but you can't move from there. The fall does deal an additional five points of bludgeoning damage.

TALIESIN: Don't care.

MATT: All right, so you get back up– You're now in this alleyway right here facing this line here is all you can really see from your perspective.

TALIESIN: Who can I see from my perspective?

MATT: You can see Vax, you can see Kevdak, and you can see this dude here, and an archer, but has partial cover because of the–

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to, as a bonus action I'm going to do a quick heal.

MATT: Okay. Second Wind?

TALIESIN: Second Wind. Just to make that go away. God, that's amazing. 18 back, so, I've got–

MATT: Second Wind, man.

TALIESIN: And: ow! I'm going to pull out the big gun and I'm going to take a nice heavy serious look at Kevdak. What am I going to hit him with? I'm going to take a sharpshooter shot in his face. I'm going to go for a headshot with the big gun.

MATT: A headshot? With the big gun?

TALIESIN: A headshot. With the big, with sharpshooter.

MATT: Right, so you're using the trickshot on him.

TALIESIN: Trickshot on sharpshooter. I'm doing a combo. 23 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: I don't feel good.

TRAVIS: I have the worst headache right now.

TALIESIN: I feel really bad right now. I don't feel happy. All right, so that's– first the damage.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: That's 26 points of piercing damage.

MATT: 26 points of piercing damage, reduced to half, 13.

TALIESIN: Plus he has to make a constitution saving throw against a DC of 19.

MATT: Constitution, yeah, that's a 23.

LAURA: Wait, what?

MARISHA: He just made his constitution save.

MATT: He's got a high constitution, saving throws, it's kind of his thing.

TALIESIN: Reloading, taking another shot. I don't care, I don't care.

MATT: Same thing, sharpshooter?

TALIESIN: Same thing, sharpshooter, I'm going to–

MATT: Any other trickshots you're going to use, or? Deadshot, anything you want to use?

LAURA: This is heroic death music right now.

TALIESIN: I hate this music you're playing.

MATT: I could switch it up, if you want.

TALIESIN: No no.

LIAM: Benny Hill?

TALIESIN: I'm going to drop a grit for advantage, because–

MATT: Okay, for deadeye shot?

TALIESIN: Deadeye with sharpshooter.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's good. It can only go up from there. And we do, all right. That's 19, 26 to hit, that hits.

MATT: With the minus five?

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, no, that's with the minus five, how about that, I rolled a 19.

MATT: Yeah. Great, yeah, so go ahead and roll damage on that.

TALIESIN: Asshole, asshole, that's better.

LAURA: (laughs) He's saying 'asshole, asshole, asshole'.

TALIESIN: That is a seven. So that's 17, 18, 19, 20. 30. 36 points of damage.

MATT: 36 halved to 18.

TALIESIN: 18. And that's my two shots so I'm not reloaded.

MATT: That's your three attacks. Shot, reloaded, shot.

TALIESIN: Shot, reloaded, shot. I'm now going to burn my action surge.

MATT: Okay, angry Percy's angry.

TALIESIN: Can I– I was going to say, can I burn that as a run or can I only burn that as an attack?

MATT: As part of the function, it's like– You can use your action as a dash, so you could.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my action as a dash to, oh fuck, there's no way around, is there? Fuck it, then, I'm taking another shot.

MATT: All right, so your fourth attack is a reload, fifth is an attack. Go for it. Is this deadeye as well or just regular?

TALIESIN: This is sharpshooter as well, no deadeye.

MATT: Okay, sharpshooter, go for the shot.

TALIESIN: 23 to hit.

MATT: 23 hits.

TALIESIN: I want to save some grit for some problems. (raspberry)

SAM: That's not bad.

TALIESIN: Yeah it is.

MARISHA: Wait. Did you roll that?

TALIESIN: Oh fuck, yeah, thank you! That's the wrong one. Oh, that's so much better.

MATT: Hah, you rolled a 20-sider instead of a 12?

TALIESIN: I can't count, my brain.

LAURA: We're all breaking.

MARISHA: I know, we're breaking under pressure.

TALIESIN: 32 points of damage? 32 points of damage.

MATT: 16 points of piercing damage, all right.

TALIESIN: And a reload.

MATT: And a reload. That's your turn. Percy is done, dealing a grand total of 47 points of damage in that round.

(cheering)

LAURA: That's good!

SAM: And I did ten, so we're almost back to where we were.

MARISHA: Okay, angry at the fact that I'm not doing much, I'm going to slowly, for flavor, my air elemental's going to start burning a little fire, I'm going to drop my air elemental and I'm going to do Firestorm.

MATT: Okay, Ryan, I need the mini-box that was not brought.

ASHLEY: (singing) Mini-box.

LIAM: Borrow the Thordak mini.

LAURA: What if we all die and the dragons take over everything?

LIAM: No. No.

SAM: You know, it's this kind of intense fun that you can get in every Loot Crate.

(laughter)

MATT: Dammit, Sam.

SAM: Every month, you'll be on pins and needles to see what's in this box.

MATT: All right, for the time being, I'll use this one here. All right, so Keyleth, you revert back.

MARISHA: I revert back.

MATT: We'll use this barmaid for the time being.

LAURA: You're a barmaid.

MARISHA: Aw, I've been demoted.

LIAM: Beers for everybody.

TALIESIN: We were at the Ren Faire, to be fair.

MARISHA: This is alternate timeline version.

MATT: All right, so, Keyleth, what are you doing? You dropped form.

MARISHA: I drop form and I'm going to Firestorm all up in this bitch.

MATT: Oh, shit. All right. What are you firestorming, where, what are you doing?

MARISHA: Seventh level, so it's ten ten-square-feet. So let's do like–

MATT: Ten ten-foot cubes.

MARISHA: Ten ten-foot cubes.

SAM: Jesus. Well see, those peasants would've died anyway, it's not me, it's her, she did it.

MARISHA: I could've gone around them.

MATT: So how do you want to arrange this here?

MARISHA: So let's start, can I do ten including this archer, ten?

MATT: You can do there, which would burst off the corner, it would hit Kevdak, the archer, and Greenbeard.

LIAM: Set that tree on fire.

MARISHA: Actually, as part of the spell I can choose to not set the tree on fire. So I choose to spare the tree.

MATT: All right, the tree is spared.

MARISHA: All plant life is spared.

TALIESIN: Vegan. Sorry.

MARISHA: I am not a vegan. From there– is that a guy, who's that, who's that?

SAM: They're all baddies.

LAURA: Everything's bad unless they've got a red ring around them.

ASHLEY: Kill 'em, baby, kill 'em.

LIAM: C'mon, Red!

LAURA and ASHLEY: C'mon, Kiki!

MARISHA: Another one there.

MATT: Okay, so we have there. There. You'd be able to get one that wouldn't actually hit any of them.

MARISHA: That's fine, and then that one. Bam. And then let's go. Can I go four, and then–

MATT: Six, seven, and that's about all you can get.

MARISHA: And that got all of these guys? And then can I go eight, nine, get this guy–

MATT: Eight, nine, ten, it wouldn't be able to get that far over. I mean, you could– (counting).

MARISHA: And get all of 'em?

MATT: You could probably get this section there, yeah. Because they're all pretty clustered, just barely.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: And you're doing an “S”, which is cool.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Zorro!

LAURA: Sorro!

MARISHA: Okay, ten– Sorro! Sorry.

LAURA: What are you rolling, what is the damage?

MARISHA: 10d10. Or no, sorry, sorry. 7d10. Wait. Let me double-check. Let me double-check what it is.

LAURA: That's a lot. All tens.

MATT: I'd say you'd be able to get this guy, this guy you wouldn't be able to, but all the rest of these you could. As long as you get over there.

MARISHA: 7d10. Okay. 7d10.

MATT: 7d10. Dexterity saving throws, correct, against your spell DC?

MARISHA: Uh-huh, which my spell DC is 19. Eight.

SAM: Oh, some of those are good.

MARISHA: Some of those are good. Plus six, so that's 14, 16, 18, 19. Another nine, around another– 29.

MATT: 29 total points of fire damage?

MARISHA: 29 total points of fire damage.

MATT: Hm. Okay. Kevdak takes– he failed his save, but he takes half that, so 14 points of fire damage.

SAM: He's back to where he was before the Heal.

MATT: Yep. Greenbeard takes the full. 29.

LAURA: But now he's a tank. Greenbeard's an earth elemental.

MATT: Yeah, Greenbeard's taking earth elemental damage now. That archer, that archer burns up, archer screams in pain as it incinerates from the Firestorm.

SAM: Wait, somebody died?

LAURA: An archer died!

SAM: Oh, thank god.

MATT: That bladestorm there takes 29 damage. That guy there, they all take 29 damage. That druid fails.

TALIESIN: Are they on fire now too?

LAURA: They're all burning to death slowly.

MATT: 29 damage there. That druid and the rest of them, fail, success, fail with a one, fail. Fail with another one. Okay, so 29, all righty.

LIAM: While the entire square sets on fire, Vax quietly and quickly falls a little deeper.

ASHLEY: Falls a little deeper in what?

LIAM: In love.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh. Aww!

MATT: All right, cool. All righty.

MARISHA: I light Vax's fire in the meantime.

MATT: So. That finishes your turn with a Firestorm?

MARISHA: No it does not, I'm going to use a bonus action to do Grasping Vine.

MATT: Too high-level, you can't do it, Grasping Vine's a 4th-level spell. You can only do up to a second level as a bonus.

SAM: Can you use your bonus action to heal?

MARISHA: I could do a bonus action to heal somebody. Who's down really bad, can I see Pike?

MATT: You can't see Pike right now, Pike is out of the room.

LAURA: Can you see me up in the air?

MARISHA: Are you rough? Have you taken some damage?

LAURA: Can you see me in the air?

MARISHA: Can I see Vex flying off into the distance?

MATT: Currently, roll a perception check.

MARISHA: Not great, 14.

MATT: Nope. You do not see Vex, you have no idea where she is right now, you just saw her.

MARISHA: I see, I can't hurt him anymore, I see Scanlan, that's all I can really see?

MATT: Scanlan you can see over there, but even then he's too far away for a Healing Word, I think.

MARISHA: That's it, that's my turn.

SAM: Well, kill Kevdak, then.

MATT: Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: All right, so I'm going to look at the three around me, one of them fell off the roof, so there's only three there, right?

MATT: Correct, there are three, ah. There are five there total, actually.

ASHLEY: Well, one of them fell the roof.

LIAM: You accidentally knocked one off the roof, Matt, five minutes ago.

MATT: That's good to know.

ASHLEY: There's how many there?

MATT: There's four of them there.

LIAM: He's drunk, fell asleep.

MATT: No, it's fine.

ASHLEY: I'm going to tell them.

LAURA: I'm a barbarian.

ASHLEY: I'm a barbarian.

MATT: There we go. That'll work.

ASHLEY: I'm going to look at them and I am going to Command all four of them to attack each other. At fourth level.

LIAM: And they're all by their allies so they should get advantage on each other.

MATT: Well, technically it doesn't work that way. All right. All right, so. What's the DC on that?

MATT and SAM: Spell DC.

ASHLEY: 16.

MATT: That's a failure. That's a failure. That's a 20, so that succeeds. That's a failure. So one of them succeeded, three of them didn't.

TRAVIS: What a call. What. A. Call.

ASHLEY: Well, hopefully, hopefully.

MATT: So. Does that end your turn?

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: Your bonus action still, what are you going to do?

SAM: Heal thyself!

MATT: You do still have Spiritual Weapon up if you want to use your bonus action to do that.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use my Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: The Spiritual Weapon can only move 20 feet.

ASHLEY: Say again?

MATT: It can only move 20 feet as a bonus action.

SAM: Oh, so it can only catch up to him.

LIAM: Diagonally. Right on his ass. Yeah!

TALIESIN: It flies over objects, too.

MATT: But you can't see him right now, you'd have to move over to have him in view.

LAURA: And one of them would get an opportunity now because–

MATT: One of them would, if you were to try and dodge past, yeah. What do you want to do?

ASHLEY: I have to move anyway.

MATT: It's up to you. What do you want to do?

ASHLEY: I'm going to try to– yeah.

MATT: Go ahead and make an acrobatics check as you try to tumble in your armor between the legs of one of the guys in front of you.

SAM: Tumbling!

LAURA: You can do it, Pike!

ASHLEY: I have inspiration?

SAM: Oh, you do have inspiration! And you'll need it, it looks like.

MATT: Whatever your acrobatics is.

SAM: With advantage. With triple disadvantage.

MATT: What is it?

ASHLEY: 14?

MATT: 14. Let me double-check here real fast.

SAM: Oh, he's going to the book for this. For a somersault!

TALIESIN: And isn't this guy technically flanked by enemies now?

ASHLEY: I mean, I'm not going to somersault, I'm going to sneak around.

LIAM: Can't she run under his balls and–

SAM: It's okay, let the DM DM.

MATT: Let me deal with it, guys. You don't want to prod me right now.

SAM: Chapter three: Somersaults.

TALIESIN: All that I have and more.

LIAM: Matt, you do amazing, every week you do amazing and we're all going to die.

MATT: Let's see the roll there. All right, so you manage to barely push past, but you do trigger a second attack of opportunity to do so. From that guy, that big half-orc there that gets in your way. So that's two strikes against you, that is a natural 20. And that's going to be a 13.

ASHLEY: Okay, well that misses.

MATT: So that is a pretty low roll, ten points of slashing damage.

ASHLEY: I'm alive, I'm alive.

MATT: What are you at? What're you at?

ASHLEY: I am at 15.

MATT: So as you dodge past, get slammed by two blades, you arc around the corner and they're all looking at each other, confused, some of them affected by this magic they aren't expecting, and you rush around and you see in the distance Kevdak, who's now getting shot a couple times, gets set on fire, flames burst up, and he starts screaming out in pain. As you turn the corner, you look over at your Spiritual Weapon, and you can nudge it forward. Right there, its full movement, 20 feet. Go ahead and make an attack with your spell attack modifier. Does not have advantage because he is no longer paralyzed.

ASHLEY: 20.

MATT: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage. So 4d8 plus four.

SAM: Oh wow, that's good.

TALIESIN: Oh no, it doesn't fuck around.

MATT: Still halved, but.

LIAM: Yeah well. C'mon Sarenrae.

ASHLEY: Okay. Plus what?

MATT: Plus four.

ASHLEY: All right, 24.

MATT: 24 halved, to 12.

ASHLEY: Fuck!

TRAVIS: I know, I forget about it too.

MATT: Yeah, I know.

TRAVIS: I forget about it too.

TALIESIN: This is how we all feel watching you fight, by the way.

MATT: So the blade drifts over and in a giant arc swings down with a resounding shining metallic slam. The blade streaks through and cuts this swath, the blade doesn't stop, it passes through and leaves this scar across his body of burned radiant energy. (grunt of pain) Looks over and glares at you from across the open cobblestone of this marketplace, and you see for a second that look that Grog saw that caused him to drop his weapon, you suddenly feel this quake in your soul. This is a powerful entity whose hatred is now bent on you.

ASHLEY: I can still move a little bit more, right? Because that was only–

MATT: You can if you'd like to. You may take more attacks of opportunity, though.

LAURA: What, why?

MATT: In order for her to move further, you might move out of combat with the other guys that are there.

LIAM: But they're all attacking each other.

MATT: The Command move means on their next turn they attack each other. Doesn't mean that they're charmed or dominated.

ASHLEY: But how many feet did I move, how many feet am I able to move anyway?

MATT: That would've been ten feet, you can move 15 more.

ASHLEY: Okay, I can move 15 more anyway.

MATT: Yeah. But you will take two attacks of opportunity if you move out of range of these two.

ASHLEY: But wouldn't that be included in the attacks that I just took? If I can move 15 total?

MATT: You can move 25 total because of your tiny feet. You moved ten, you have 15 more feet you can move.

MARISHA: Your tiny feet.

ASHLEY: Should I stay? I'll just stay.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: You need to heal yourself, dude.

ASHLEY: I know, I know, I know.

MATT: Barbarians are going now. This one picks up the gauntlet and is going to rush over.

MARISHA: Fuck!

MATT: And bring it to Kevdak, and he's going to go ahead and hold it there, as Kevdak takes his arm and–

MARISHA: Is the arm still in it?

MATT: The arm is still in it, yeah. And he looks at it and takes it with his free hand and clutches it to his chest. And looks around at the other ones, says, “We're going.” And he–

TALIESIN: Wait, was he holding a weapon?

MATT: Yes, he has no weapons, his weapon was pulled away from him.

TALIESIN: I thought someone brought him his weapon.

MATT: Oh, brought the hammer, he brings up the hammer as well, but he doesn't–

TALIESIN: But I thought he was hold–I'm trying, yeah, no, I'm desperately trying to give a reason why this couldn't work.

MATT: No, he has no weapon on him currently. He tried to reach for it, but he had no functioning arm at the time. He told someone to pick it up, so someone has your flaming warhammer. These guys here are going to move over here. Move over here. And that one's going to be attacking Pike. Over here, that's two attacks on Pike. That's going to be a 13? And a 14. Rolled really low on that one.

TALIESIN: Praise Sarenrae, praise Sarenrae.

MATT: You hear the growl behind you, and without even turning your head, you slam your shield up and deflect one of the blows. Look over your shoulder and glare at it as another one comes down, and this– you take your mace and swing it in a wide arc over and slam their blade against the stone wall of the side, deflecting the entire attack. As that's happening, both of those guys go forward. Two and a one. Goes up against one of the peasants and strikes and the peasant ducks out of the way and manages to avoid the attacks.

LAURA: That's good, that's good.

MATT: This guy here with the giant club goes down and dodges one of the attacks, the other one does come down at 11, yeah, this peasant gets smashed.

LAURA: Oh no, was that the little kid?

MATT: No, this was the drunker guy.

ASHLEY: Well, he didn't feel it.

TALIESIN: Died happy.

MATT: All right. That ends their turn, it's the druids' turn now.

LAURA: There's so many. They all get to go.

SAM: That's how they all feel when we attack.

MATT: This druid here is going to move forward, seeing you over there, Vax. Reaches out towards you as it only has its 4th-level spells and lower left, because of you, you Counterspell motherfucker. It's going to go ahead and cast Blight on you, Liam. I'm going to need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw, as the druid reaches out at you with its hand and says, “Kevdak! Inside!” and concentrates, gripping out. This female goliath, you can see with these thick braids in the back of her head, pulled into a very, very tight braid down to the lower part of her back, reaches out and grasps. You feel the blood begin to pool in parts of your body and your veins turn dark around.

LIAM: Now, constitution save, right?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: This is real bad. What is that? That's eight.

SAM: Eight total?

MATT: Total. All right.

LIAM: I'm Kate Moss, man.

TALIESIN: Don't make that face.

MATT: You take 41 points of necrotic damage.

MARISHA: Wow.

MATT: As you feel the energy pulse through your entire body and it's like all the blood in your body momentarily becomes toxic. Your vision blurs and you feel the dizziness hit you and you almost stumble to one knee but you catch yourself against the wall.

LIAM: It just halved me.

MATT: That ends the druids' turn. Now the blademongers are going to go. All right. These guys are all going to attack each other.

ALL: Yeah!

MATT: Except for that one.

TALIESIN: Are they not going to attack him as well?

MATT: Well, one of them's going to go ahead and attack Pike, because it was the one that wasn't affected by the Command spell. That's going to be a 19. No? Okay!

ASHLEY: Just misses.

MATT: And a 13. No. Cannot hit this armored little gnome, who's pushed against the wall, and you're deflecting blows and taking hits against the armor that are denting the front of it, and you're grinning and bearing it.

ASHLEY: I'm growling! Arrr!

TRAVIS and ASHLEY: Arr!

MATT: These guys are attacking each other now. That is seven– it hits. They can't hit you but they can hit each other. Two attacks against that guy, and then the other guy. Both hit. So the first guy takes 14. 24 points of damage.

SAM: Are you okay?

ASHLEY: 15.

SAM: Do you want us to do something?

ASHLEY: I can. I'm like–

MARISHA: Just focus on the mission.

ASHLEY: Focus on the mission at hand.

MATT: Ends up– That guy there then also takes 22 points of damage on them. Okay. They start hacking into each other with their blades suddenly, trying to figure out what's happening. And technically another barbarian strikes, so the third one who actually missed you? That would've been an attack against its own guy, because that was the one that didn't hit, so he would've been– Once again against this guy. So he deals an additional 13 points of damage against one of the other ones. Okay. Got you. So that finishes their turn there. So these guys here are going to move around the fire, this guy's going to move up here.

LIAM: Everyone's at disadvantage with me, just a reminder.

MATT: Yeah. This guy here is going to go ahead and move one, two, three. And then using Greenbeard, who reaches out and grabs him with his elemental arm and alley-oops him up onto the roof. With the acrobatics roll. Rolls a one.

ASHLEY: He dies!

MATT: This guy gets slammed into the side and falls back to the ground, missing his turn.

LAURA: Falls right back down like some other loser that I know of.

MATT: Yeah, (laughs). Greenbeard miscalculates and actually slams him against the wall. And then the goliath sort of slides down. Takes four points of bludgeoning damage from that.

(laughter)

MATT: All righty. And that guy there is going to go ahead and strike at the child.

LAURA: No!

MATT: A three. And 14.

MARISHA: Shifty kid, c'mon.

SAM: He's a little weasel, he's a little weasel.

MATT: No, he's going to hit the kid.

LAURA: He's a scrapper, he's dodgy. No!

MATT: Kid gets cleaved.

LAURA: We didn't save anybody and we killed ourselves.

ASHLEY: If we kill everybody, maybe I can raise him.

MATT: They're now trying to find a way to draw you out. They're taking turns doing this, keeping, as each person they strike down they look about the rooftops again for more of you. That's going to go ahead, and these guys here are going to go ahead and start swarming over towards the front. This guy here (counting) can't quite get to you, Vax. This guy here, seeing Percy jump down, is going to go ahead and jump down to meet you from behind. See if he makes his. He fails on a two. He falls prone. Takes–

LIAM: “I'm coming. Whoa!”

MATT: He takes 12 points of falling damage.

LIAM: “Ah, help.”

MATT: However, he does use the rest of his movement to stand back up and is going to take two swings at you, Percy. That's going to be a 23 to hit?

TALIESIN: I'm going to pull my magic shield, actually, I would have to have a 24 AC for that not to hit.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, I'm–

MATT: Okay. Second one's a natural 20. So the first strike hits you for 12 points of slashing damage. Second strike, double ones on the crit, so that's four, eight points of slashing damage with the second hit. (laughs) I rolled double ones on his crit, that's really frustrating. You're fine with that. All right, that ends their turn, top of the round, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: As you're standing there now, bleeding profusely, holding the necklace that holds Grog, what are you doing?

LAURA: I'm going to fly over right above Kevdak.

TRAVIS: How high?

LAURA: Like a good 50 feet.

MATT: Yeah, that's 50. All right.

LAURA: All right. I'm going to Pokeball Grog right out so he can attack straight out of the gate. Just like I would Cannonball Trinket.

TRAVIS: And I am willing.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Aren't you at death's door?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: I'll say essentially because you held your action last turn, if you wanted to go ahead and take your action to do a drop attack on this point here.

LAURA: Can this be my bonus, so I'm dropping him out is the bonus, and then I still can attack? I mean, it's only a locket. It's not like it's a whole move.

MATT: Yeah, I'd say it's your bonus action to do it, yeah.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: So, Grog, you were released, falling down to land on top of Kevdak with the bloodaxe in a downward arc.

TRAVIS: And a big windup as we're coming down.

MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.

TRAVIS: Any chance I can make this reckless?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: No! Then they all get advantages against you again.

MATT: Up to you.

TRAVIS: Oh, thank god for that. Natural. 20. Look at it. The first one was a one.

ASHLEY: Fuck you!

MATT: Ones and twenties, man, you got to stop this. And that's why he did reckless.

(screaming and cheering)

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll damage on this.

ASHLEY: Get 'im, Grog.

LAURA: Does that mean he gets the three 12s again?

MATT: With the Brutal Critical at this level, how many extra dice is it for you?

TRAVIS: Brutal Critical is one additional damage die during critical hits.

MATT: But then that's gone up since you leveled previously.

TRAVIS: That's true.

MATT: So you are now at, I believe– so Brutal Critical, yeah, 13 increases to two. So you roll an additional 2d12 on the attack. So roll 1d12 plus, you're not raging anymore, because you spent the last round.

TRAVIS: That's right, that's three.

MATT: All right, so plus three.

TRAVIS: So ten.

MATT: Ten. Plus two more d12s.

TRAVIS: 12. So that's 22. And a ten. For a 32.

LAURA: And then double that? His crits don't get double?

MATT: You only double the first roll.

TRAVIS: Yeah, double the first, right. Which was ten, so 20, so 42.

MATT: 42, brings it to 21 damage. How do you want to do this?

(screaming and cheering)

MARISHA: It worked!

LIAM: Poetic justice!

MATT: As the shadow fires from the necklace as she holds it aloft, bleeding and shaking, you appear, and dive down in silence. The square coming towards you, as Kevdak, clutching in the one nearly ruined arm, the other arm that you bisected, is turning the corner, about to open the door to dive into the house to avoid it, looks up just in time to see you streaking down. What do you do?

TRAVIS: I say: For Strongjaw! And I sink the axe right into his neck and part him perfectly down the middle.

MATT: With the sheer force of the blow, the weight behind it, and the intent, the axe hits him right in the side of the neck, cleaves off part of his ear, shaves off part of his skin here, exposing the jawbone, hits here, breaks the clavicle, tears through, and every single rib is destroyed. It cuts right through the center of this giant body until it gets to about the midsection where it catches, finally. The upper torso splits open and covers you with gore, however, you still impact, not raging.

TRAVIS: Yep. Nope.

MATT: You take–

SAM: He's going to die.

TRAVIS: Don't care.

MATT: 25 points of fall damage from the impact.

TRAVIS: That will put me unconscious and 21 points under.

MATT: And 21 points under. You have that barbarian ability– Would that be part of this?

TRAVIS: I have Relentless Rage.

MATT: If you drop to zero hit points while raging, you're not raging. So yeah. As you shout, the blow, in a very Superman-versus-Doomsday way, cleaves him in half, and as you slam into the ground, you pull the axe free as your shattered legbones give under and you fall to the ground. You smile as you see his form crumple, and then you (impact) face-first into the ground before him.

LAURA: Who's next? Oh, I'm still going. It's still my turn!

MATT: It's still your turn. You watch as every single Herd member in the entire open square gasps at this whole sight. They all turn hearing you scream “For Strongjaw” and see this happen. As Kevdak's body slumps to the ground, it shrinks back down to its average size, and you crumple to the ground, smiling, and fall next to him. And everyone takes a moment of breathless silence. What are you doing, Vex?

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: Wait, are you dead, Grog?

LAURA and LIAM: He's unconscious.

LAURA: I mean, my only option to heal him is to land and touch him.

SAM: He's surrounded by baddies.

LAURA: Well. Fuck it, I'm going to land and touch Grog.

MATT: Okay. What's the speed of the broom?

LAURA: I don't know.

MATT: It should say on the broom how fast you can move on it.

LAURA: Do I have that somewhere?

SAM: You know, in your broom chapter.

MATT: Here we go, I'll find it for you.

LAURA: Oh wait, wait.

MATT: Just a moment, guys. Broom of Flying. Speed of 50 feet. So you moved from over here, which would have put you– it's about 50 to get there. So you could use your action to dash with it, you'd land, that's all you could do.

LAURA: I couldn't do anything else? Okay. Then I guess I'm going to stay where I am and– Jeez. Can I hold my action? I'm going to hold my action until–

MATT: Yeah, it's an action to feed a potion to anyone.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: What are you going to do, Vex? Hurry up.

LAURA: I'm going to hold my action until Grog is healed.

MATT: Okay. Okay.

LAURA: And I– can I shout anything?

MATT: If you want to.

LAURA: I'm going to shout, witness Grog Strongjaw, and bend the knee!

ASHLEY: It's great, it's great, it's great.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

LAURA: Natural 20!

(yelling and cheering)

MATT: Don't hit the table, I was going to go inspect it.

LAURA: No, I hit, I hit, but it was, it was a 20, I swear.

MATT: No, I trust you guys. I trust you guys.

SAM: It's all ones and twenties. We have these two-sided dice. Just a one and a 20.

MATT: This is going to be an interesting night to explain to the internet, guys. All right.

LIAM: You opened it up to the dice, and the dice decided.

ASHLEY: We witnessed, we witnessed.

MATT: Okay. So. At this point in time, you watch as Greenbeard's form shrinks down and shifts back into his goliath form, still busted, he's looking down at the destroyed, crumpled body of Kevdak, and you there on the ground as well, looking up at you above and hovering. He looks over at the other goliaths nearby here that are rushing in, and they all step out and backwards, inspecting this body. There's a pause, a moment of pause. But they've all paid attention to what you said. That ends your turn. It is now the archers' turn.

LIAM: Not me right after Vex?

MATT: I'm sorry, you're up next.

LIAM: Yeah. I'm going to use disengage to back a little bit away from them, I'm going to scrabble up the wall– where's the light, no– I want to go up by Keyleth.

TRAVIS: You're pointing at the screen.

MATT: So you move around.

LIAM: I'm not the first one to do that. And pass her, I want to jump down and land in front of Grog.

MATT: Okay. So you run past there?

LIAM: And jump in front of him, between him and– not Greenbeard, between Grog and everyone over there.

MATT: Okay, so you'd be leaping, technically onto the body of Kevdak is what you'd be doing.

LIAM: That's fine.

MARISHA: Squish.

MATT: So you land onto Kevdak's form, very angry slash, I'll say for the purposes of this you're there, because Kevdak's body is way too big right now to put on the field.

LAURA: But we are so going to loot that.

MARISHA: So going to loot that shit.

MATT: All right, you land.

LAURA: If we survive this.

MATT: With your hasted movement, make an acrobatics check for the jump.

LIAM: That's fine. 25.

MATT: Yeah, you scale up, run, leap, land there, feet sinking into the body.

LIAM: And I land on him and I say, Kevdak has fallen. Will you let Strongjaw rise? And I hold my action to attack if they come at me.

MATT: Okay. It's the archers' turn. This archer has its arrow trained on you and is going to hold its action. This archer here is going to move up to see what's happened, dashing to look out and see what happened, doesn't get its turn. This archer here, who's now moved, moves over to this side with its arrow trained on you as well. It's also going to hold its action. And they're all looking at each other at this Mexican standoff moment where they're all poised and ready. Everyone's holding their actions right now. It would be Kevdak's turn, Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I'm pretty far. I'm going to jump down off the roof and move towards Grog.

MATT: Okay, so you run down. Okay. The guy who was up against you has looked over and is not paying attention at this moment. Make a stealth check.

SAM: Oh. Stealth check. 13.

MATT: 13. As you rush down the thing, he looks over, looks at you and goes, “Hey. Hey!” And can't even catch you, you're too fast. Make an acrobatics check as you leap off the roof.

SAM: 19.

MATT: 19. You gnomish three-point-land in this square. You're right next to Pike now, you've landed next to her. As you're around the corner now, you see Scanlan (impact) right next to you.

ASHLEY: Hi!

MATT: You've got about 15 more feet you can move if you wanted to.

SAM: Move 15 feet? Okay. I will, can I, I can't take her hand and walk too, she can't move right now.

MATT: No, not at the moment.

SAM: Okay, well I'm going to continue to walk.

MATT: I mean, I could say if you wanted to, you could move half your movement and take her with you.

SAM: Okay, I'll do that. I'll take her with me.

MATT: Okay, you take her hand.

SAM: I'm going to use Healing Word, oh shit, what just happened?

MATT: You and Pike move there, holding each other's hand.

SAM: Okay. I'm going to use Healing Word on Grog, and I'm just going to start chanting, Strongjaw! Strongjaw! Strongjaw!

ALL: Strongjaw! Strongjaw! Strongjaw! Strongjaw!

SAM: Communicate that as a Healing Word.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll the heal on that. I also want you to go ahead and make a persuasion check.

SAM: Me?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Heal is eight points. What's that do?

MATT: So you go to zero, and then eight.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: And then persuasion check?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Well, I mean, come on.

TALIESIN: I know.

SAM: That's 23.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. Finishes your turn, Scanlan–?

SAM: No, I have an action still.

MATT: Yes, you do.

SAM: So I will cast Bigby's Hand and lift Grog up 30 feet like a fucking god.

(laughter)

SAM: If he's willing.

MATT: I will say for the purposes of this, because I want to do this, this is ridiculous.

SAM: Oh, I had to cast that at level six, by the way.

LIAM: Is it full palm-up, or is it Barcalounger style?

MARISHA: Is it like a chair?

SAM: You know what, because he's the god and the hand is subservient, it's the back of the hand like this. It's a dainty lift.

(laughter)

MATT: I will say Grog is now currently being held aloft right there.

MARISHA: Nice!

MATT: As the hand is clutching Grog Strongjaw, lifting him up into the air, you're conscious now as the hand's holding you on its back and you get up from one knee. Grog, it's your turn.

LIAM: Pinkie's up?

SAM: Pinkie's up. Tea-time.

TRAVIS: My herd. Hear me. Fallen is your mighty leader Kevdak, the very goliath swine who would have domesticated you like a common household cat, who would have made you bend a knee to a mere dragon. I show you this. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one of the dragon's teeth that is still in there and I toss it into the middle of the square.

MATT: Clatters to the ground at the feet of one of the nearby bladestorms. It stops at his foot. He looks at it, picks it up.

TRAVIS: I would tell you that under the correct rule, and a return of power to this Herd, dragons would bend a knee to the Herd of the Storm. Where is Zanror?

MATT: They all look at each other and Greenbeard hobbles out, still wounded and hurt, into the center of this area.

SAM: Does he have an actual name or is that just his name?

MATT: Greenbeard's his name.

SAM: Oh, great.

MATT: Steps out into the middle, looking up at you. “Strongjaw. You stand above us all. In a way.”

(laughter)

MATT: “Claiming dominion over a herd that you fell to and left behind for years. Though you struck down Kevdak, what do you think makes you aligned with the interests of our people?”

TRAVIS: Oh, you mistake me, Seer of the Herd. I do not mean to lead this herd, but rather to empower you to more powerful game. I'm here to inspire your aspirations. Never would I ask you to bend the knee. Only would I ask you to live and fight and perhaps die in the most beautiful death you can possibly attain. Join me and my fellows. Come to our aid when I call. And with that, we will chase down dragons, gods, and more.

MATT: Make a persuasion check with advantage.

LAURA: Come on, come on, come on.

MATT: With advantage on that.

TRAVIS: Fuck. That's only an 11.

ASHLEY: Can I use War God's Blessing, or?

MATT: I don't think it works for abilities.

MARISHA: Can I assist him with a skywrite 'Strongjaw'?

MATT: (laughs) Bing! Strongjaw.

MARISHA: I mean a stormcloud above him?

ASHLEY: Inspo, inspo, inspiration from anywhere?

MATT: It's a little late for that. It's okay. At this point Greenbeard sizes you up from a distance. Everyone else is waiting for a word, you can see everyone is hand on the side of their weapons looking at each other and there's this extremely tense air. Greenbeard turns around and looks to two of the individuals near the front of the building and goes, “Bring out Zanror.” And the two of them go inside the door and close it behind them. They step inside the building and there's this long silence. You wait for 30 seconds.

LAURA: Can I take a healing potion while they're inside? I'm up on the thing.

MATT: You can, yes.

ASHLEY: Can I heal Grog?

MATT: Are you going to step up?

ASHLEY: I can see him.

MATT: You can see him, yeah.

ASHLEY: So I'm going to cast Heal on him.

MATT: You're going to cast Heal?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: As you begin to go for your holy symbol, you can see two of the warriors behind you twitch for their weapons.

TRAVIS: Hold! It is not necessary. Brothers, look me in the eye. Has the taste of food lost its appeal? Has the zest for life fallen from your hearts? Living in this domesticated dwelling. I promise you this: hear me, and I promise you adventures and glory that is worthy of this herd.

MATT: The door slams open from the front of the Margrave's home. You see as the two individuals come out with chains over their shoulders as they drag out into the center two individuals. You see another half-giant goliath man, one that you've all seen once before on your way to Kraghammer months and months ago. Well. Yeah, about. You see him swollen in the face, bruised, and in shackles, dragged out and thrown to the ground. And the other one holds over his shoulder another chain. He pulls out behind him a half-giant woman with the hair on the sides of her head shaved, one single long mane of hair, and it looks like she's with child. Also in shackles. And she's pushed to the ground with Zanror. Zanror looks up and you can see him closing his eyes like the daylight itself is very bright and he probably hasn't seen light in a period of time. “Strongjaw.”

TRAVIS: Cousin.

MATT: “Well. This is a surprise.”

TRAVIS: Your face seems a little different.

MATT: It's at this moment that he looks over and glances, and can see the body of Kevdak on the ground for the first time, and then he goes, “You did this?”

TRAVIS: Scanlan. Lower me down.

SAM: I swoop him down. Do you want to be on the ground or just above it?

TRAVIS: On the ground.

SAM: On the ground. But I release him and I make a fist that clenches right next to him. Just in case anything goes bad.

MATT: So. As you're brought down to the ground, Bigby's Hand sets you gently on the cobblestone.

TRAVIS: I take a few steps forward. Yes. This is my work. A debt fulfilled after many, many years.

MATT: (sighs) “I fear the Herd's lost its edge. Priorities. My father had grown docile in this place. But he wouldn't be if whispers hadn't found his ears.” And he looks over at Greenbeard. Greenbeard immediately steps back and goes, “Look at him in shackles. This isn't a warrior, this is a slave. Both of 'em.” Spits in their direction.

TRAVIS: Strange. I would ask, why is he in shackles? What did Zanror do that would draw this sort of ire from the Herd?

MATT: The one that's holding the chains on Zanror pulls them a little tighter and Zanror's lifted up a little bit off of his leaning-forward position, he's now on his knees and his arms are pulled up, in towards his torso. And Greenbeard looks back towards you. “This skyshield here spoke against his father. He was attempting some sort of a mutiny. But we quelled that right quick. Gave him time to think about it. His father was deciding what to do with this traitor. And his next of kin. You, however, seemingly stopped his trial, so I think it's only fitting that you do the honors of finishing the job.” And you can see as you were lifted off the ground and everything, you did not have your weapon with you, as you were on the ground, lifted up. Greenbeard steps over and takes the bloodaxe from the ground, walks up to you, and hands it out, and looks over to Zanror.

TRAVIS: I am sorry, Zanror. But I will make it a glorious death. Bring me the gauntlets as well.

MATT: “Let it be.” And two of the other individuals, one of the half-orc individuals looks over, hushed, and starts backing away from this, this is too much for him. There's now this tribal tension, this cultural tension that only exists within the initial Herd and has been only recently adopted by the Rivermaw that were absorbed by the Herd and are still confused by this. Two of the goliaths step over and pull and pry out the somewhat soggy leftover arm of Kevdak.

LAURA: Kind of like when you're eating lobster, to get the claw out, yeah.

LIAM: Shrinks as it leaves.

MATT: They toss it to the ground before you.

TRAVIS: I stand. Put on the gauntlets.

MATT: Kevdak at this point is still being held up by the chains and says–

TRAVIS: Zanror.

MATT: Sorry, Zanror. Thank you. “It was unbefitting of us all to be living under one of those beasts. Under my rule, we were going to take back our power as a people.”

TRAVIS: Quiet yourself. I've heard enough. And I lift the bloodaxe and I say: you are a disgrace to this herd and I will return this herd to power. And I pivot, and I drive the bloodaxe into Greenbeard.

MATT: Oh shit! Roll an attack.

TALIESIN: Yeah you do, buddy.

TRAVIS: Reckless?

MATT: If you want to.

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: Get the fuck out!

LAURA: It's a fucking natural 20.

MATT: Roll damage.

SAM: We're going to have to get these dice calibrated later.

LAURA: But why does it only happen when it's a story element?

TRAVIS: That's an 11.

MATT: Watch as next week Critical Role implements dice cam.

(laughter)

MATT: No, that's awesome.

LAURA: Oh, let me take a picture, I'll take a picture.

TRAVIS: So that's 15.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: And then two more?

MATT: Two more, yeah.

TALIESIN: Watch next week as we fail to open the door to his house for an hour and a half.

MARISHA: Yeah, yes, can't roll above a five next week.

TRAVIS: That's 27. 37.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

SAM: Oh, you got it?

MATT: (laughs) He had taken a shit-ton of damage in the battle, and was already moving by–

TALIESIN: Yeah, he was pretty low.

MATT: He had like 12 more hit points left, so.

TRAVIS: It seems all the poison came from his head, so I'll remove that from his body.

MATT: And with that moment, (swishing), with a very slick snapping sound, the blade coasts through and the neck retreats as the head continues forward and tumbles to the feet as Greenbeard's body takes an instinctual step backward and then falls, lifeless, in the center of the marketplace. All the rest of the Herd moves for a second, nervously.

TRAVIS: I spin and I say: do you see? Do you see what staying in one place does? This is what weakness looks like. I would return you to the wild. I would return you to power. But you will have to do it under this goliath's rule. Unchain Zanror.

SAM: I point Bigby's Hand like he was too.

(laughter)

MATT: As Bigby's hand points to Zanror, the two that are holding the chains move up and begin to unchain them both, taking the shackles off his hands and the female goliath at his side. Eventually he stands up, reaches over and puts his arm around her and says, “I am sorry, Worra.”

TRAVIS: Worra.

MATT: Worra. She stands and goes, “Do not be sorry. It seems we've been delivered from our judgment.” She looks up towards you. You don't recognize her.

TRAVIS: I don't.

MATT: She's not from the original Herd.

TRAVIS: Zanror, she is quite a beauty. Congratulations.

MATT: “You saved us narrowly being executed, Grog.” And he stands up and gets to the front of all the rest of the Herd there. “Call forth the rest of our people. We do not leave this town yet. We claim Westruun home for one more night. For it is tomorrow at dawn, we slam our blades against the hide of a dragon.”

TRAVIS: No. This is honor. This is pride. This is a life worth living.

MATT: “Will you join us in this glory and pride, fair cousin Grog? You have proven yourself worthy of life and respect and the might of the Herd of Storms.”

TRAVIS: How many do you number?

MATT: He looks about and takes in the mental math of all the people that were killed.

MARISHA: Yeah, we didn't kill that many.

MATT: I know, you took a few down. “We'd stand, between the people that were loyal to me and my father, a good 43 men strong.”

TRAVIS: More than we need. And I grab my earpiece and I go, (meekly) thoughts?

(laughter)

SAM: I mean, we have a busy day tomorrow already, I don't know if we should add dragons to it.

TALIESIN: We're hunting another dragon.

SAM: Just say yes, we can always leave in the dead of night.

TRAVIS: All right. All this bloodshed is giving me a terrible itch in my ear. We shall stay with you and tomorrow we will bathe in the blood of a dragon.

MATT: He steps forward to you now, there's a slight limp to his walk, but there's too much pride for him to show it as he tenses and reaches out his hands to you and clasps it in his own, Beastmaster-style, holding onto it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, strength and honor!

MATT: “For the dragons, it shall be.”

TRAVIS: It shall be.

MATT: He releases the grasp. “Let them walk amongst us as brethren. Come. We have much preparation to do.” And he goes back to Worra and limps into her arms, and she takes him up and it's her strength now lifting him on his feet. And the two begin to make their way across the rest of the center of town. All the rest of them take their weapons and they relax, and they still keep a very wary eye of you. The words have been said and there is still this tenuous truce, but they're still coming off the cusp of adrenaline, warfare, and the slaughtering of their previous leader. However, they are going along with the words that were spoken, and there is a look of general fear and respect in their eyes, guarded as it may be. What do you guys want to do?

LIAM: I would like to sever the remaining gristle away from his arm that's holding the gauntlet on.

MATT: The gauntlets have been retrieved. And given to Grog, yeah.

LIAM: Then I would like to loot Greenbeard's body.

TRAVIS: Could you do me a favor? Could you butcher me a skull of Kevdak, please?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah. I'm going to land.

MATT: You're going to land, all right.

LAURA: And I'm going to call Trinket out.

MATT: Trinket, who's been hiding in the back room there.

LAURA: Because things happened so fast for him!

MATT: They did happen.

LAURA: And there were really strong people!

ASHLEY: And I got to go over and heal, yeah. Already healed him.

SAM: I'm going to go over– are there any remains of the little boy?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Do you have anything that can heal the little boy or bring him back somehow, Pike? Key? Anything?

MARISHA: I go and check the little boy. How bad is he? Is he beyond the point of return?

MATT: He's done.

ASHLEY: Could I–

SAM: Resurrect him or something?

ASHLEY: I have Raise Dead.

MATT: Do you?

LAURA: Does it turn him into a zombie, or does it–

MATT: No, it just raises him from the dead.

LAURA: Okay, yeah, do that.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll go over to the little boy and see if I can–

MATT: Okay, this will take a while. All right. So, as the rest of herd move on, following Zanror, they begin to separate to gather the rest of the herd throughout the town. A few stay behind, keeping watch–

MARISHA: I'll assist Pike in any way that I can.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit and fix my gun.

MATT: It's going to cost– 500 gold are consumed by the casting of this spell as part of the–

LAURA: I'll help.

MATT: Okay. Takes an hour. So, as you guys take this time, this is a short rest for those of you who aren't part of this ritual. You complete the ritual. Go ahead and make a religion check.

LAURA: Hey, you already boxed up your stuff.

MATT: She was like, I'm done, I'm out. Peace.

ASHLEY: 20?

MATT: d20, add your religion.

LAURA: That's good.

ASHLEY: 24.

MATT: Okay. Vex, you said you wanted to help. What did you want to help with the ritual on?

MARISHA: No, I said I wanted to help.

LAURA: She was assisting. I was helping with the money.

MATT: Right, sorry, helping with the money. How are you aiding with the ritual?

MARISHA: What? How am I aiding with the ritual?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: What were you doing?

MATT: Well, she was casting– she was preparing the ritual, preparing seals and taking out the components and praying to Sarenrae and speaking the rites, which channel through her in Celestial language. Although she doesn't understand Celestial, she speaks it through as part of the spell, almost like–

TALIESIN: I speak Celestial.

MARISHA: I also speak– no, I speak Primordial. I keep getting that confused.

MATT: Yep. How are you aiding in this?

MARISHA: Can place my hand on his chest and place my other hand on the ground and try and use natural healing to assist?

MATT: Sure. Go ahead and make a straight wisdom roll.

MARISHA: Natural one.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Can I assist?

MATT: How would you like to assist?

TALIESIN: I would like to come over and start listening to the chanting that she's doing in Celestial and harmonize and bring a voice to it since I can actually speak Celestial.

MATT: Roll a performance check.

SAM: Performance.

LAURA: That's lovely.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: All right. As you finish the ritual, both the voices of Pike and Percy begin to harmonize across these various refrains in a language that, especially when spoken in this rhythmic, ritualistic way, it seems to almost create a third voice. And then you hear, clearly, there is a third voice harmonizing with them that you don't know where it's coming from.

SAM: It's me. I'm off here in the corner. (sings scat)

MATT: As the beautiful musical tones of the singing come to a close, your holy symbol, the glow fades, and a moment passes before you hear the soft coughing of the child's throaty expulsion, himself taking in his next breath of air. He sits up, cradling his head. “What happened?”

MARISHA: It's okay. I dump a Cure Wounds in him now.

MATT: It's okay!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Not a potion! I cast Cure Wounds.

MATT: Okay, okay.

TALIESIN: Take it, take it!

MATT: He's like, (choking sounds).

LAURA: I cast Grasping Vine and lift him up by the neck.

LIAM: Shot right in the chest.

TALIESIN: Six years of Celestial, and when are you ever going to use it? It finally pays off.

ASHLEY: Thanks for helping, Percy.

TALIESIN: That was lovely, thank you.

MATT: All right. So the child is brought back to life, healed, confused, dazed, but not really understanding the circumstances around him, just happy to–

MARISHA: He heals 24 hit points.

MATT: Yeah, he's good to go. His wounds close, the dried blood's still there, but he seems to be in perfect health at the moment, although a little weak and worse for wear.

LAURA: Where's your mother, child?

MATT: “I don't know.”

LAURA: Was she here in the square with you?

MATT: “No, everything went by so fast. They tried to pull them out, but they found me and pulled me out and brought me here. That's all. There was a fight and a lot of yelling. That's all I remember.”

ASHLEY: Where do you live?

MATT: “Up by the temples.”

LAURA: Okay. Well, we'll help you find your family. And maybe while we're there we can see if your grandfather's around.

MATT: He smiles a little bit. You can still see the dried blood streaks across his face, but you can see past that to the smile that peeks through beneath his dirty face.

LAURA: I lift him up and put him on Trinket so we can start walking.

MATT: Okay. He laughs and Trinket licks him and takes some of that off and he is excited to be grasping something, although he slides a couple times. You can see he's weak from the remnants of the resurrection spell.

MARISHA: I give him a boost.

MATT: Okay. Anybody else doing anything for the short rest?

TRAVIS: I would like to not only remove Kevdak's head, just the upper part, no jaw, just the skull, and I would like to use the bloodaxe to flay the skin around the bear tattoo off.

LAURA: Is there anything else to loot off of Kevdak?

MATT: I mean, there is the bloodaxe, there is the–

LAURA: Gauntlets?

MATT: The gauntlets, and he has four plus-one enchanted javelins that he did not have an opportunity to use this battle.

LAURA: (sings) Bag of Holding!

LIAM: I already called Greenbeard.

TRAVIS: I'll take the plus-one javelins. And I'd like to put the flayed skin in your refrigerated bag.

MATT: So mark that, mark down in your refrigerated bag, flayed bear tattoo of Kevdak.

LAURA: Flayed bear tattoo. Got it.

MATT: That's disgusting. General leather armor, quarterstaff. You do find one potion of greater healing he did not have the opportunity to try.

LAURA: Nice. I'm putting that down.

MATT: That's all he has on him.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to spend the rest of the time that they did that ritual gathering up the bodies, the remains.

TALIESIN: I'm going to fix my gun.

MATT: Okay. Make a tinkering check.

TALIESIN: Just barely. By one point. Did not break.

MATT: Good. All right.

LIAM: I'm going to start a fire–

MATT: There's already a fire going.

LIAM: Is it?

MATT: Well, it's slower-burning embers now. One of the barricades that had been set fire by the Fireball earlier.

LIAM: I'll stoke it, and then put the bodies on.

MATT: Okay, so you take the bodies of the dead villagers that had been lost in the battle and the handful of the other combatants that had fallen, and you throw them onto the fire and it crackles and burns over time. The smell of burning bodies fills the space around it for a while.

TALIESIN: We have a house to procure some items from. And a conversation to have with Zanror at some point.

SAM: What time of day is it now?

TRAVIS: Are there any other goliaths in the square that are lingering?

MATT: There are three lingering that are keeping an eye.

TRAVIS: Can I walk over to one?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: Tonight we prepare for an incredible battle. Go. Release any meager prisoners you may have kept. They will do nothing for our fight.

MATT: “Very well. These two stay, though. No offense, but you did just kill one of my friends naught but an hour ago.”

TRAVIS: I did. And your claim is fair.

TALIESIN: These two?

LAURA: Who's these two?

MATT: There were three Herd members that were keeping an eye–

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: Two of them are goliaths. One of them is human. The human and the other goliath stay behind. The one you talked to walks off and seems to be following through on what you told him to do.

TALIESIN: Is it Lord Zanror, by the way? I may request an audience with Lord Zanror at some point. With your supervision.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Have at it.

MATT: Now Thunderlord Zanror.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Thunderlord! I say that in my head.

SAM: We have Pike's dad to find, we've got a house to loot–

MARISHA: We've got a child to deliver home.

MATT: Did you want to look over the items you found on Kevdak?

TRAVIS: Oh fucking shit, yes, may I please?

TALIESIN: And a unique opportunity to maybe really fuck up a dragon. If we want to be smart.

MATT: There's your bloodaxe. And there's your Titanstone Knuckles.

LAURA: (laughs) Bowing down like he's been knighted.

TALIESIN: Hm? We have a dragon who's going to go pick up a giant package of whatever we give him.

LAURA: Oh shit, you're right.

TALIESIN: We could make some interesting decisions on what's in that box.

MARISHA: That is an interesting point.

LAURA: I mean, do we have to stay in the square, or are we allowed to?

MATT: No. Doesn't seem to be anything holding you there other than the ritual that was done. When the ritual's completed, you're welcome to go about what you're doing. At which point you do see as time has passed, a few people start poking through windows, who apparently were either hiding in some of these buildings, and see you guys and check out and then go back into hiding again. The town still has people living throughout it. Many of them stay hidden whenever things move in their vicinity.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: So.

SAM: What's our thing? Do we want to achieve anything else tonight or just rest?

LAURA: I feel like we should return this little boy to his family. And see if we can find your grandpa.

LIAM: In the short term, we should be able to walk freely, though.

MATT: All right. So, as you guys gather yourselves, partially rested and breathing a sigh of relief at the not horrible circumstance that nearly transpired there thanks to the luck of the gods in a lot of cases.

LAURA: I can't believe we're not all dead.

MATT: You make your way northward through Westruun, toward the temple district, small child at your side with the intent–

LAURA: On Trinket.

MATT: On Trinket by your side. And possibly to prepare for whatever the Herd has in store for dawn. And with that, we'll finish tonight's game.

MARISHA: Now we're going to have to have another huge conversation.

LAURA: We didn't die! I seriously thought we were all going to die. When he got healed and everything was running–

TRAVIS: Yup. Yup. I was like, we might as well make it cool, because we're dead.

LIAM: We had it, then it flipped and it was gone. And then we snaked it outta the fire.

MARISHA: But we had them on the run!

MATT: He, by the way, on that Hold Person, that Cutting Words/Hold Person.

Like, that's exactly what that–

TRAVIS: Dude. Yes. Give it up for the fucking bard. Who has an article in Dear Vox Machina.

SAM: Oh yeah, appearing tomorrow.

MATT: Yeah, no. Kevdak hadn't used his action surge yet.

MARISHA: What was that?

MATT: Kevdak hadn't used his action surge yet.

SAM: Action surge? What does that do?

MATT: Multi, it's what he does.

TALIESIN: What I do, where he can take an extra action.

MATT: He can do four attacks in one round with the bloodaxe.

SAM: Did he ever get to attack?

MATT: No. Couldn't make his save. His arms were gone by the time he came around.

LAURA: Oh my god, getting his arms off him, brilliant.

MATT: Plus, he had four more superiority die and the riposte ability. So he could–

TRAVIS: What is riposte?

MATT: When a creature misses him with a melee attack, he can use one of his superiority die to do a reaction attack as well. So he could in theory get five attacks in one round.

TRAVIS: Oh. Holy shit. That's that half-fighter side, right?

TALIESIN: That's sexy.

MATT: Yeah, that Hold Person really changed the dynamic really fast.

LIAM: We had a very heated discussion over the earring in that 30 seconds, let me tell you.

TALIESIN: Well, we had that whole long walk. That was the theory.

ASHLEY: I think that was the most stressful game I've ever played.

LAURA: This was incredibly stressful.

SAM: Pike almost died, Grog died.

TALIESIN: I was about to be toast. Two more hits from that guy and that would've been the end of me.

TRAVIS: That was fucking amazing.

MARISHA: That was a three-hour battle. We did nothing but fight.

MATT: And honestly, mucking it up with the archers helped too, because they were all about to start focus-firing on whoever was visible.

LAURA: Yeah. So I'm glad we split them up. Getting Grog out.

MATT: Getting Grog out was key. If you hadn't pulled him out and taken all those attacks of opportunity? You would be gone. They weren't going to stop when you hit zero.

TRAVIS: No no, that would've been it.

MATT: They were going to cut you up until you were dead.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Yep.

LIAM: Look at that guy.

MATT: What?

TRAVIS: I know, look at the face, you saw it too, didn't you? The shadow of a man that wished he could have butchered somebody and didn't quite get to.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: The shadow of Craven Edge lives behind those eyes.

MATT: It's okay. Bunch of dudes. You guys have dragons to deal with.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: All right, well, guys, thank you very much for watching. Thanks again for Loot Crate for being awesome and being our sponsor–

ALL: Thank you, Loot Crate!

MATT: If– I dunno, if he's still around. Is our guest still around?

LAURA: Is he?

SAM: No, there's no way.

TRAVIS: Why don't you mention the Loot Crate link again?

SAM: Oh yeah, we should flash up the Loot Crate link and we'll be tweeting that out later.

MATT: Yeah, it's ww (stammers), www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole.

SAM: So that's five w's?

TALIESIN: And the code is “criticalrole”, not “critrole”.

MATT: They didn't coordinate with Wyrmwood.

LIAM: Missed opportunity.

TALIESIN: I got Loot Crate for my little brother. It's his nerd of the month club.

ASHLEY: It's the best. I have Loot Crate and it's the best.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's a bash. Every time around we're like, aha!

MARISHA: I know, it's like a little present to yourself that you forgot you got.

TALIESIN: Also, anything I don't want, I put into a big bin and, at Christmas, I am Santa Claus to all the kids on the block. It's intense. They all want to know what's up with me.

MATT: That's fantastic. All right. Well, in the meantime, we'll be back next week to see what this next chapter in the Westruun portion of this adventure holds. Well done, guys. That's the largest battlefield I've made so far.

SAM: That was an amazing battlefield.

LAURA: Good job, Matthew Mercer.

MARISHA: Thank you, Dwarven Forge!

MATT: Is he– he's not here?

(groans of disappointment)

MATT: Well, we had the pleasure of having Patrick Rothfuss in the office today to watch the game, so wherever you are, Patrick, pleasure to meet you, and maybe we'll drag you–

ASHLEY: Big fans, big fans.

MATT: Maybe we'll drag you on the show sometime. Next time you're in LA. So, anyway guys, have a wonderful evening, see you next week, and is it Thursday yet?

(cheering)

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. We had quite an interesting episode last week, and leading into more interesting possibilities this week depending on what happens. So, that being the case, let's go ahead and try and get through these announcements real fast so we can get to the game. First and foremost, this is our second week of our fantastic Loot Crate sponsorship. Those of you who aren't familiar with Loot Crate, they're an awesome company that produces monthly themed boxes that contain a bunch of fantastic geek items from licensed gear, apparel, shirts, tchotchkes, statues, all kinds of fun stuff, me and Marisha have been members for years, and it's actually really, really cool stuff and they've been awesome enough to take interest in our show and sponsor us. To the point where, if you're interested in getting one, you can actually get three dollars off a subscription by going to their website at www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole and put in the code “criticalrole” to get your three dollars off your subscription. It's legitimately really cool stuff. And you should go check it out. Plus we get to show them the strength of the Critter nation, you guys go ahead and click on the link and say hello.

TRAVIS: Yeah, mobilize.

MATT: You also have until the 19th of this month at 9:00pm to subscribe to receive the next month's Loot Crate in time, otherwise the cutoff happens, and the next one looks pretty cool. So you guys should definitely try and get into that window if you can. Let me see. There is a– oh! Our first “Dear Vox Machina” article went up last week, answered by our fantastic Scanlan Shorthalt over there.

MARISHA: So funny!

MATT: You can find that on the Geek and Sundry website. If you haven't had a chance to check it out, you can check it out on geekandsundry.com. We have a new one coming out tomorrow–

SAM: Featuring? Featuring?

MATT: –featuring, do we know who it's featuring? Do we know? Vax is helming that one next week, so that'll be fun. Check it out at geekandsundry.com for Vax's answering questions sent to him by various people who live all about Tal'Dorei and beyond.

LIAM: Let's have a heart-to-heart.

MATT: Yeah, what could possibly go wrong?

TRAVIS: He walks away.

MATT: Or hits them in the head with a–

LIAM: I didn't answer any of them, I just left it and took a walk.

MATT: Perfect. I will be a guest at the end of this month, the last weekend in May, at Momocon in Atlanta, as a reminder for all you southern East-coast folks. Looking forward to coming there and doing some panels and such. And then the weekend after that, the first weekend of June, I will be at Akon in Dallas, Texas. So for all you Texas folk they just finally announced that.

LAURA: Woo, Dallas.

MATT: I'm going to these folks' old neck of the woods. So if you're in that area, come say hi at Akon, be a lot of fun. Oh and Travis, you're going to a convention next weekend.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Laura and I will be at Puerto Rico Comic Con next weekend. The 21st and the 22nd, or the 20th and the 21st, whatever Saturday and Sunday is. We'll be there! Come squeeze us, we'll sign your books–

LAURA: Squeeze us?

TRAVIS: Yeah, come squeeze us. Ahh, sushi burp. Here we go, it'll be hitting you real soon.

MATT: Everything shrivels. And Taliesin, you will be at another convention as well.

TALIESIN: I will, I will be at Amazing Comic Con in Hawaii next weekend. Actually, I will be missing the game because I will be working on my pale, in the moonlit shores of Hawaii.

LAURA: I love how well your shirt and your hoodie match your hair.

MARISHA: I know, it looks so pretty.

MATT: That is pretty slick, actually.

TALIESIN: Thank you. This is as fresh as I can get. Because I've been sleeping in the studio.

LAURA: It's pretty fresh. So fresh and so clean.

MARISHA: You look like a Wicked and Divine character. It's pretty great.

LIAM: What color will you be next week?

TALIESIN: You know, I think I'm going to stick with the lavender for a while. I think I'm slowly going to move it towards amethyst.

MATT: Hey, I like it.

TALIESIN: Little green, little blue.

MATT: Also, as a note, Taliesin is the new host of Signal Boost. The next run on the show that Marisha is the creator and co-producer on, writer, all that other fun stuff.

MARISHA: Along with Shaun Becker and Eric Campbell. Couldn't do it without those guys.

MATT: You had a fun promo go up this week as a teaser for it. That was rather fun.

MARISHA: Check it out. It's very good.

MATT: Indeed. And I want to say, though it's only been a couple days past, happy birthday to Marisha. Happy birthday this past Tuesday to Marisha.

MARISHA: That was added after I sent out the announcements.

MATT: That was added right now because I'm your boyfriend. But yeah, happy birthday.

MARISHA: Aw, thanks, babe.

ASHLEY: We love our druid!

MARISHA: Aw, thanks, guys.

ALL: Huzzah!

MATT: Speaking of birthdays, I believe there is a gift to be given?

LIAM: Yeah, I don't have an announcement, but I have a bit of a surprise. This is a little bit early, because my sister and I share a birthday on the 28th. However!

MARISHA: May birthdays!

LIAM: It's a big month for birthdays, I'm a little worried about the next episode or two, if we're going to survive or not, so the gift that I have I want to make sure you have it now, just in case. It's very timely. Ryan, if you please.

LAURA: What? What is this thing? Is it a baby bear cub? Is it a real bear cub?

MARISHA: Oh, yeah!

LAURA: (gasps)

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: That is fantastic.

LAURA: Oh. My. Gosh. Shut your face!

ASHLEY: Lookit! Look at what it says.

LAURA: Happy birthday twinnie, fly high. Thanks brother!

MATT: All the barf. That's so cute!

LAURA: Oh my god, I want to ride it around right now.

SAM: It's got a little bend in it for your butt!

LAURA: Does it really fly though, that's the thing.

LIAM: I don't know, maybe have some padding or mattresses out the first time you use it.

LAURA: (squeals) Oh, this is so cool!

LIAM: I also thought it would look nice in the house.

LAURA: It'll look so good in the house! It's so perfect. It's going to go on the mantle.

SAM: Hold it up a little higher so the people can see.

LAURA: (sings) That was Ariel, singing Little Mermaid.

ASHLEY: (sings)

LAURA: Keep singing!

LIAM: I'm a big fan of all your decisions, keep making them.

LAURA: Thanks, brother. Thank you so much. I don't have your gift for you here.

LIAM: Whatevs.

SAM: She dropped it in a portapotty.

LAURA: Make him hold it!

MATT: Make Trinket hold a broom. This is going to go perfectly. It does actually work!

TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah no, that's rockin'!

MARISHA: That's perfect!

ASHLEY: I love it so much.

LAURA: Thank you, that's so wonderful.

LIAM: You're welcome.

LAURA: Don't steal it, Trinket! You won't fit on it.

MATT: Anything else anyone wants to say or shall we jump into it?

MARISHA: I guess we should also say thank you, Hardwick–

MATT: Thank you Chris Hardwick for letting your broom be stolen. “Letting.” He still messages occasionally, “Where's my broom?!” It's pretty great. Anyway. That being the case, let's go ahead and jump into tonight's chaos for this episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: Hello everyone. So, from last week's episode. Vox Machina, our band of adventurers who have found their way into a struggle against a group called the Chroma Conclave, a collection of ancient chromatic dragons that have torn across the landscape of Tal'Dorei and beyond, setting ruin to a number of major cityscapes and then claiming areas as their own after the fact. In order to combat this, eventually hopefully their leader Thordak the Cinder King, a great and powerful red dragon, they've been in search of ways to improve their prowess as heroes in search of these artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, lost from wars long past. After finding information about these, it was also discovered that one of their original homesteads, Westruun, the actual place where Pike and Grog, for a large portion of his life, grew up, after being sieged by the dragons, had been overtaken by the Herd of the Storm, of which Grog previously ran with for most of his life, and was helmed by Kevdak, his uncle, a rather cruel and ruthless leader, after they had absorbed the River Maw years beforehand that had swollen to a great size. Battled the dragon, and amongst their losses came to an accord in which they would leave riches for the dragon and it would let them be for the time being. Upon making their way into the town, thinning some of the ranks of this ravenous herd, Travis as Grog threatened Kevdak to a battle one-on-one for supremacy of the herd, and quickly may have gotten in a little over his head. In the center of the town square, a great battle commenced, where after calling to his side his friends Vox Machina, a bloody fray that nearly felled a few of you, through some ingenuity, some decent planning, and some trickery of magical item use, you managed to survive and have Grog deal the death blow to Kevdak, amongst all of the watching herd. After some barely scraping by diplomacy, managed to bring it all to a ceasefire for the time being, freed Kevdak's son, your cousin Zanror, who from his bindings seemed to be of a different mentality, emotional mindset than his father was, and is now wishing to– with the two of you, being Vox Machina and the remainder of the Herd– bring this fight to the black dragon itself, pulling themselves from under the thumb of its rule, thus saving Westruun and your own lives in the process. You all have brought to life one child who was lost in this fray, and are currently escorting this boy northward towards the temple district of Westruun, and that was where we left off last time. So. As you guys recovered somewhat, some of your wounds, taken a breather, begin walking through the now slowly unrolling streets of Westruun, some folks are coming out, some are still staying in, because there are still various druids, warriors of a very aggressive nature wandering the streets, though sparser than before, seeing you guys walk through, as many people do recognize you through your previous exploits, building a little sense of security they have not had for the better part of a week. Making your way northward with this little boy, you eventually find your way into the outskirts of the temple district, the very familiar half-toppled stone wall that in a circular way encompasses this portion of the northwestern side of Westruun. What would you like to do?

ASHLEY: Well, I would like to make a proposition, if everybody would like to take a rest, I know I'm pretty rough right now and maybe we could go see if my great-great grandfather is okay.

LAURA: Of course.

MARISHA: We were in the process of–

SAM: Escorting this boy to his home.

MARISHA: It was the three ladies, right?

LAURA: But we'll bring him home, then we'll find your grandfather.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: Or we can take him home and meet you.

ASHLEY: Who– how– where is–

SAM: Little dead boy?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: The little boy is still clutching on to Trinket's fur, riding him behind you, he's got a little smile on his face, the dried blood still covering half of his smile.

LAURA: Does any of this look familiar to you, darling?

MATT: “Yeah. Mom should be up that way.” And he points further down the thoroughfare.

ASHLEY: It's close.

LAURA: Yeah. And your grandfather lives in this area as well.

ASHLEY: Yes.

TALIESIN: Don't see why we can't do both.

SAM: Swing by his house, yeah.

MATT: “Giddy-up!” And he kicks the side, and Trinket like, (grunts), lumbers forward.

LAURA: I pat Trinket's butt. It's okay.

MATT: Licks your hand begrudgingly and continues forward, plodding on the cobblestone. For a while, eventually the boy, looking for familiar sights, some of the buildings have taken some damage in the initial black dragon onslaught, he does suddenly point his finger forward and goes, “That's it! That's it!” And you go past a couple of humble buildings, and then you start getting into the slum section. I say slum, it's where the poor people in the temple district live when they're not tending to temples or businesses that are surrounded by this district. You can see it's a functional, it's a standing hovel, but it's mainly a scrap wood roof, bits of thatch to help maintain any protection against rainfall. The wood looks old, some of it may have been rotted, but treated since. It's functional. But the boy jumps off Trinket.

LAURA: Oh, be careful!

MATT: Doesn't even pay attention to you, runs up to the door and hits the door and it's solid. He goes and pulls on it and it seems to be closed, so he goes, “Mommy? Mommy?” He seems genuinely excited, but also trying to get in the front door.

LAURA: I walk up behind.

MARISHA: I whisper to Pike and be like, mm, we didn't think about this potential outcome, did we?

LAURA: Hello? Is anyone home? It's relatively safe–er. Than it was.

MATT: Time passes. What are you doing?

ASHLEY: Can I check the door, if it's locked?

MATT: The door itself doesn't have a knob per se, it has a small dark iron handle that's bolted to it, but you pull it and something's holding it back, like there's something actually barring it from the other side.

ASHLEY: That's a good thing.

MATT: A few moments pass. Silence.

MARISHA: Child, how long has it been since you've been away from your home?

MATT: “They just pulled me out today.” Then you hear a voice come from the other side of the wooden door, peeking through the space. “Hello?”

LAURA: Knock-knock, we have your son, safe and sound.

MARISHA: Delivery.

LAURA: Special delivery for child's mum.

MATT: “Theodore?” And the boy goes, “Yes? Mom? Please please please! There's nice people out here.” And you hear the shifting of wood onto the side, the door opens ever so slightly and on the inside you can see a pale and scared-looking woman, clean, simple clothing, has some sort of half-torn apron on that's wrapped around a simple peasant blouse. She has her hair up in this small cloth cap and she pushes through. “Theodore!” Opens the door and picks him up and wraps him in her arms and holds him for a second, not even paying attention to any of you, and there's this moment where you can see the fear that has been stuck in her mind since he was pulled from the inside of their abode slowly abated with the return. Eventually she stops and her eyes come up over his shoulder to the rest of you. “I'm sorry, pardon my manners, I'm Yulia. Thank you.”

LAURA: Of course. Well.

MATT: Puts Theodore down. “Hold on, let me–” She goes and steps inside of her home. Eventually a few moments later she comes back and she has a small handful of coins.

LAURA: No, darling, put that away.

MATT: “I– it's the least I can do.”

TRAVIS: Is that it?

LAURA: Truly, put that away.

MARISHA: It's not what we did this for. It's fine. We're just glad he's home safe.

LAURA: And not even slightly dead!

MARISHA: Nope! Not a scratch!

ASHLEY: He's fine, just nothing even happened.

MARISHA: If he has weird dreams– don't worry about it. Children, you know.

MATT: Her eyes are partially trained on Grog as she now notices you, she steps further out of the house, she's like, “Is everything okay now?”

LAURA: Oh yeah, he killed the bad guy.

TRAVIS: We're under new management now, going to be a lot of changes around here. For the better.

MATT: “Okay. Thank you.” She cups the coins back into her hand, reaches down and rubs Theodore's hair, looks at the blood that's still there and looks a little worried for a second.

LAURA: I think it's paint, I think it might be paint, they were painting.

MATT: “Is he going to be all right?”

MARISHA: Oh yeah, he's great.

SAM: We had spaghetti for lunch.

LAURA: Quite an adventure.

MATT: “Thank you.”

MARISHA: Give him a little hot cocoa, warm blanket, he'll be fine.

MATT: “Better go clean you up. Go clean you up.” And he's like, “Okay!” And he runs in behind her as she turns again and takes the door and pauses for a moment looking out at you and says once again, very quietly under her breath, “Thank you.”

LAURA: Have you– sorry. Have you seen a small elderly– an older gnome?

MATT: “Wilhand?”

LAURA: Yes, have you seen him, is he all right?

MATT: “We've been staying inside since the incursion came.”

LAURA: All right.

MATT: “The few that I have seen were not under good circumstances. But the fact that I haven't seen him might be a good thing.”

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: Do you know if they were hiding anywhere? If anyone else went anywhere specifically to hide?

MATT: “Not a lot of places to hide. Only certain areas in the sewers are safe, and our homes are the best places, if we knew our way around our own homes. We had a hiding spot, but Theodore got away from us, hearing all the noise, and they managed to take him away.”

TRAVIS: Where did you hide?

MATT: She brings you guys inside and it's very, very plain in the interior, it's very cold, you can see there is a small firepit with a cauldron over it that's used for making simple soups and whatever food they prepare in here. There is a portion of the roof that is open to allow any sort of smoke to pass through, but it does have some runoff to let any sort of water fall off outside the window. She heads back behind where the cold cauldron is, and where the stones are set up to guard the back from catching any of the wood behind it, she goes and pulls on one of the pieces of stone, and as she pulls it back it's a false front of stone that pulls open. There's a small cabinet there that you see there used to be a– religion check, for those who are trained in it. Or who are skilled in it.

LAURA: Trained in it.

ASHLEY: You can try.

MATT: Have a proficiency.

ASHLEY: 20.

MATT: Okay. You see, even a quick glance, there's a small broken statue that lies to the ground, and you can see the semblance of a destroyed shrine. This back room was a shrine to Melora, and has since been seemingly tossed aside in the hurried state of trying to protect one's family.

MARISHA: Can I reach down and pick up the statue?

MATT: It's in three pieces. As you pick it up, she goes, “Oh, I'm so sorry, we–” She goes for your hand and goes, “I didn't– hopefully she'll forgive us, I know she will.”

MARISHA: Tell me about this deity.

MATT: “Melora?”

MARISHA: Melora.

MATT: And you've heard Melora, it's a whole section of Vasselheim that is based around her sphere of influence, and she is actually where most of the food in Vasselheim is grown in such a cold environment, her blessing is what allows the land there to be fertile for crops from many different places.

TRAVIS: Sweet.

MATT: But she tells you, and you can see the symbols too, the symbols that are carved in the side of the stone are these swirls, almost like a slow cascading spiral. She says, “Melora watches over nature, she watches to make sure we have a good harvest, she makes sure we don't get washed away in the storms, she makes sure that the ships to the far west make their passage across the ocean, she looks out for us smaller folk and brings vengeance upon those who attempt to destroy our life.” As she looks distantly out the open door behind you into the city itself. “But anyway, I'll repair that.”

MARISHA: I might be able to help. Can I attempt– hang on– can I attempt a Mending spell on it?

MATT: Yes, you can. You take a moment, close your hands around it, close your eyes, and you can see what little bit of dried grass or moss that's gathered at the edges of the stone all of a sudden spreads and encompasses all the pieces of stone as you're holding it together. She takes a step back, her eyes full of wonder, as the moss then turns dark brown, like a shell of soft vegetation, and then cracks and falls away, leaving behind the stone statue in one piece.

LAURA: That's sick!

TRAVIS: Sweet!

MARISHA: I hand it over, and I tell her, I'm a druid of the Ashari people and I know several worshippers of Melora, but wasn't necessarily a believer of her powers.

MATT: “She protects you, too.”

MARISHA: And you're sure of this?

MATT: She looks over to her child, who's now sitting on the side, pulled a couple of these wooden toys out from the side and is gathering them in his arms and is grabbing all the things that he missed while he was taken away, and she says, “She brought you to me. She brought you to him.”

MARISHA: Why should I believe?

MATT: “She'll show you. In her own way.”

MARISHA: Thank you, my lady.

MATT: She takes the statue and, “Well, if there's anything else I can do for you.”

TRAVIS: Yes, actually. You should leave. I don't mean that in the way that it sounded, sorry, back up. So, come tomorrow, there might be danger in Westruun. You and your kin should go. In fact, anyone that you see, take them with you, there's a little encampment not far from here.

SAM: There is?

TRAVIS: Yeah, all the shanty area of people–

SAM: Oh, oh, the refugees.

MATT: They were south of here by Foromir Basin.

SAM: South, north, northwest. South.

TRAVIS: It's over by Foromir Basin. Head for that if you can.

SAM: Look for no trees.

MATT: She takes a mental note. “No trees. All right. I haven't been that far south. Should we get the others, should we tell others to come with us? If there is danger here–”

SAM: We're going to fight here? I thought we were going to do this out of town.

TRAVIS: There's a fight coming here. You don't want to be here. Don't be too obvious about it, on the sly, if you can, but try and make your way out of here before dawn tomorrow.

MATT: “Okay, we will. Theodore? Start gathering your things, we're taking a little trip.”

LAURA: A fun trip.

MATT: He goes, “A trip! Yay!” And starts gathering more of his things, he gets a pillow case and starts putting stuff into it. “We haven't done a trip– we haven't done a trip!” “I know. Thank you.”

TRAVIS: On second thought, should we ask them to leave on the sly, like, through the sewers? Just in case.

MARISHA: I wouldn't make a show of it.

TRAVIS: So maybe underground if they can.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I think we're going to have– are we here? I can't remember.

MATT: Yeah, you're all together.

MARISHA: I thought we weren't either, I thought it was just the girls but then everyone started talking.

LIAM: And then Grog was here. Reality is very malleable.

TALIESIN: I think we're going to have to have a larger conversation about where everybody ends up in the very near future, and while two people in and out of town is definitely agreeable, I think there's a larger discussion to be had.

LIAM: I have an odd question for you.

MATT: “Yes?”

LIAM: Do you know of anyone still in the city who would know their way about the sewers?

MATT: “I mean– usually the guards would go through and make sure that the things that were living down there weren't living anymore, but– I don't know anyone in particular that worked down there. Sorry.”

LIAM: It's fine.

SAM: I know someone.

TALIESIN: You do?

SAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Why don't we let this woman return to the rest of her day?

TALIESIN: We have more appointments as well. Much to do today.

LAURA: (whispering) One last question, this is it, I swear.

MATT: “Okay?”

LAURA: Are you familiar with anyone in the farming area just outside of town?

MATT: “I've seen some folks come and go.”

LAURA: We're looking for a woman who was a daughter of one of the gentlemen that worked in the fields, and we really have no idea how to go about finding her.

TRAVIS: (whispering) Reginald.

LAURA: Reginald's daughter, yes.

MATT: “Reginald's daughter. I'll ask.”

LAURA: All right. You know where to find us, we'll be about.

MATT: “All right.”

TALIESIN: I think I know who to have that discussion with as well.

SAM: Good day. Oh?

ASHLEY: I go over to Theodore and– I don't think I have to bend down.

MATT: No, no, he's maybe half an inch shorter than you.

ASHLEY: I had a little wooden doll, and so I'm going to pass it to him and say, in case we never see you again, you can always think of us when you play with this. That's for you. And you can name him whatever you want.

MATT: “What's your name?”

ASHLEY: Pike.

MATT: “I will name you Pike.” Throws it in the pillowcase. Says, “Thank you!” Gives you a quick little kiss on the forehead.

MATT: Pulling more things in the pillowcase.

ASHLEY: Theodore!

LIAM: So much better alive than dead.

LAURA: I know! I mean, good thing he never died.

LIAM: Hey, a rare ray of sunshine from the DM today.

SAM: Let's continue on.

TRAVIS: Don't poke him.

MATT: You guys say your goodbyes, she lets you go and she locks the door behind and you gather they're making their necessary preparations. Where to next?

TALIESIN: Pike.

SAM: To Wilhand's.

ASHLEY: Follow me, please.

MATT: All right. Not too far away, actually, you come to the red brick homestead where Pike, Grog, and Wilhand live. Mostly intact. The second floor, which you guys are definitely familiar with–

LIAM: Hey, I remember this place! Wow.

MATT: –part of it has fallen in, doesn't look like it's been set fire or any serious damage in that regard, some sort of nearby rubble or some sort of impact caused part of the roof to collapse from the outside. You come up to the front door. It's currently locked.

ASHLEY: That's a good sign. I think that's a good sign.

TRAVIS: Do you want to knock?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: No answer.

LAURA: You have a secret knock you maybe used?

TRAVIS: Maybe you should say who's knocking, just in case. You do knock so strong.

ASHLEY: Pop-Pop Wilhand? It's Pike!

TALIESIN: Well, I heard that.

MATT: Nothing.

LAURA: He might have very soft footfalls.

TALIESIN: He might not be home.

MARISHA: Is he old and hard of hearing?

ASHLEY: A little, he could– a little. Vax? Would you mind? Maybe you'll get some luck with this door.

MATT: Technically, Pike, you do have the keys to the home.

LIAM: I mean, I can do it if you want to.

ASHLEY: Wait, hold on, I forgot that somewhere in this armor–

TALIESIN: No, he needs this, he needs this, it's all right, absolutely needs this.

SAM: I'll explode the door!

ASHLEY: All that clanking is actually this key moving about my armor. All right.

MATT: Unlocks the door.

LIAM: That key has seen a lot of miles.

MARISHA: Been around the world.

MATT: You push and the door hits something.

SAM: Damn it. Doors.

MATT: It like budges maybe a quarter-inch.

LAURA: He's barricaded the door, that's a good thing, that's a really good thing.

ASHLEY: I go to the crack. Pop-Pop Wilhand! It's Pike!

LAURA: I go and look through the window, is there a window?

MATT: There is a window, there is cloth shuttered around it, you cannot see in the inside.

LIAM: And the hole in the roof. Could I get up it?

MATT: You could probably get up there if you wanted. Go ahead and make a– make an athletics check.

LIAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Bugger all, I say we give it a shove.

LIAM: Eh, 14.

MATT: It takes you a few minutes, but you eventually climb your way up, looking down into the second floor. Part of the roof is fully pushed in, it looks like there's a piece of wayward stone that was ejected from an impact not too far from here, possibly from one of the nearby temples, that ended up slamming through the roof. It's partially embedded in the ground, the wood's splintered up around it, but it didn't hit the bottom floor, it lodged itself in the floor of the second.

LIAM: Hear anything, see anything inside?

LAURA: What do you see? Oh. Well.

MATT: Are you at the bottom floor? Bottom floor, all, there is some furniture that's busted, but a lot of the furniture's all been pushed right to the front door. There's a giant barricade of mishmashed furniture that is jammed impossibly into this front area.

ASHLEY: He's very strong.

TALIESIN: We're going to give a push to the front door.

MATT: More amusing when you consider that there's a glass window right next to it that is not blocked at all, shuttered so carefully.

LIAM: There's a window, there's nothing in front of it, you want to come in the window?

TALIESIN: We give a shove.

MARISHA: We give a big shove.

MATT: Make a strength check, with advantage we'll say as you– well, him, having advantage you're helping.

MARISHA: Oh, him having advantage because I'm helping.

TALIESIN: Oh. 18. Is my strength.

MATT: 18. You guys have to slam it a few times, and the impact lodges a few things loose. Come cascading down, causing a bit of a racket, but eventually you manage to get it pushed open enough where you guys can squeeze through.

LIAM: You just broke a chaise lounge, but come in.

LAURA: Pike, after you.

ASHLEY: Okay. I step in and start looking around.

MATT: Looking across the way, you see the fireplace mantle has been ruined where the original small shrine to Sarenrae used to be, looks like it's been knocked over and then put back together on top haphazardly, like it was shattered and then was put up there and is delicately keeping its form by how it was laid. The rest of the room is cold. It's quiet other than your footfalls.

ASHLEY: Can I check the bedroom?

MATT: Okay. You go up to the bedroom area. As you go up the stairs, you can see the giant piece of stone that's smashed in there, where the bed would be in part of the bedroom area.

LAURA: Pike, did he have any hiding places, like that other house?

TRAVIS: I go with her.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look around for personal effects, papers.

MATT: Make an investigation check, both of you guys.

LIAM: Is there a basement here, Pike?

LAURA: 18.

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: What were you going to say?

ASHLEY: There are hiding places.

MATT: You guys go through the kitchen area, and as you are looking about, moving stuff, in the pantry area there is a small wooden slat that is partially moved across that leaves a small opening in the floorboards.

LAURA: Percy! Wilhand?

TALIESIN: Hello?

MATT: “Shh! I'm not here!”

TALIESIN: Pike, I've got good news, he says he's not here!

ASHLEY: Okay, I go running down.

MATT: Okay, you run and you push stuff out of the way. There's the one board that's slid open, all the rest of the boards are still loose and placed over it. Do you just take the boards and toss 'em up?

ASHLEY: I just pull them off.

MATT: As you pull the boards off, what little bit of light has made its way from the window on the far end of the kitchen, you can see a bit of glimmer off a set of glasses that immediately recoil in the shadow and go, “Oh!”

ASHLEY: Pop-Pop Wilhand!

MATT: “Pike? Oh my goodness.” And his hand reaches out and grabs yours and you pull him up and he's covered in dust and dirt and he's probably been down there– the smell, probably been down there for a few days.

ASHLEY: I give him a big hug.

MATT: You give him a big hug, he has long, ratty, silver hair that's bald on the top, bowled on the sides, curled up and matted on the edges of his shoulders. His normally nice light blue, sky blue shirt is torn in places and covered in dirt. He has been living under the house for quite a while. There's a little bit of dried food crusted on the side of his chin. But he's there with a big ol' hug. “Pike, I missed you so much.”

ASHLEY: I missed you so much, I'm so glad you're okay.

MATT: “Look at you, look at you. Where'd you get this scar? Oh.”

ASHLEY: Long story, we'll get there.

MATT: “I want to hear this story– and it's Grog!”

TRAVIS: Hello Wilhand!

MATT: Runs up, goes to give you a hug and goes, “Oh! Come down, come down.”

TRAVIS: Oh, no– yes. Take it easy.

MATT: “You big guy.” And his eyes go from really warm to suddenly very cold, and he goes, “They came back for me. They came back for me. I saw 'em in the street.”

TRAVIS: I know, it's all right. It's all right, Wilhand. It's all been taken care of.

MATT: “They didn't find me though, they didn't find me.”

TRAVIS: You hid.

MATT: “I did, and they didn't find me at all. There was no way they could find me. I know where the secret places are.”

TRAVIS: I see where Pike gets her smarts from.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: “So. It's been a while! All of you!”

MATT: And he starts going around and giving each of you– you guys got the hugs, he's giving you the formal like, “Oh, yes.”

TRAVIS: This is Vex, this is Vax.

LAURA: He knows us, Grog.

MATT: “Yes, I remember.”

MARISHA: Keyleth, hello.

MATT: “Been a while.”

TALIESIN: I don't actually think we've met before, hello.

MATT: “No, you're unfamiliar to me. Nice to see you again.”

SAM: Scanlan, Scanlan.

MATT: “Always nice to see a fellow gnome in these parts. You are?”

TALIESIN: Ah, Percival Frederickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III, it's a pleasure to meet you. Hello. Hi.

MATT: “Right!” And he pats your shoulder.

TALIESIN: That took some doing, well done. I'll lean down for that.

MATT: “So. You need to hide too?”

ASHLEY: There was a very big battle. And Grog beat Kevdak.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Chopped him in half! Straight down the middle. Filleted him.

MATT: “I knew you would! You've always been the strong one.”

ASHLEY: So everything's a little bit more under control, hopefully.

MARISHA: A little.

ASHLEY: Mm. Ish.

MARISHA: Wilhand.

MATT: “Yes?”

MARISHA: Did they want something in particular with you? Why did they want you?

MATT: “Well, they went after me years ago, nearly had me.”

MARISHA: I've heard the story, yes.

MATT: “But I escaped.”

MARISHA: I've heard.

MATT: “I managed to flee, and took one of their own with me.”

MARISHA: I know.

MATT: “Nursed this one back to health, we did.”

TRAVIS: Thank goodness.

MATT: “And I think I made 'em angry, so they came to Westruun trying to get revenge on old Wilhand, but no, too keen for that, these eyes have seen the world!”

MARISHA: You think the goliaths–

LAURA: Yes, well of course they did!

TRAVIS: Yep, that's the only reason they came here.

LAURA: Who hasn't heard the legend of Wilhand?

MATT: “Not many actually, I don't get out very often.”

TALIESIN: They cry your name across the–

LAURA: The seven seas?

MATT: “No no no no. Don't give me a big head about it, it's fine.”

SAM: I've written many a song about you, it's true.

MATT: “Well, if they're all dead, let's have a meal!”

TRAVIS: Little misunderstanding, they're not all dead. We unseated Kevdak.

MATT: “Okay.”

TRAVIS: He's dead. And so was the horrible bastard who was pouring poison in his ear. But listen, I gave power up to the Herd, to Zanror, his son.

MATT: “Okay.”

TRAVIS: So it's in slightly better hands. Little problem–

MATT: “Right.”

TRAVIS: They want to stay and fight the dragon that's going to come back.

MATT: “Okay.”

TRAVIS: So we need everyone in here to leave.

MATT: “Perfect.”

LAURA: Perfect?

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: Perfect in what way, leaving or fighting the dragon?

MATT: “Dragon? What?!”

TRAVIS: Sorry, yes.

MARISHA: You were aware, right?

MATT: (terrified noise)

MARISHA: Okay. Yes. Yes, that one.

MATT: And he starts walking back towards the hole.

ALL: No, no no no!

TRAVIS: I grab the back of his britches and I pull him back. Nope, nope, Wilhand.

ASHLEY: Hey, guess what though? We've fought many dragons already. And guess what, I killed one!

MARISHA: Two, three-ish?

ASHLEY: Two or three.

MATT: “That's my Pike! Then this is nothing! The dragonslayer, Pike Trickfoot, come again to kill another!”

TRAVIS: That's how she's known.

MATT: “Great. Wondrous.”

TRAVIS: Ruthless.

MATT: “Let me know when it's dead.”

ALL: No, no no no.

ASHLEY: It's okay right now.

TRAVIS: We're glad you're safe. We want to make sure you're out of here before any real damage comes to town.

MARISHA: We're also going to need any and all recruits that you may know of, or any favors you can call in. If we are in fact going to fight this dragon?

TRAVIS: We haven't quite talked about–

LAURA: We really should have a conversation about that.

TRAVIS: But what is known is that there's going to be a fight tomorrow.

TALIESIN: There's probably going to be a fight tomorrow.

TRAVIS: And unless you want to throw down, and I know you're a mighty warrior, not saying you shouldn't, but if you don't want to, now might be the time to hop-skip out of here.

TALIESIN: There's no shame in prudence.

TRAVIS: No, no, not in the hole!

MATT: He swats your hand away and goes, “Heh.” Goes back down into the hole, you can hear him rummaging a little bit, something falls and hatters. (incoherent grumbling) Eventually he comes back out clutching a dark brown glass bottle with a cork in it, and he goes, “I'm going to need some of this. Ugh.”

TRAVIS: Well, don't be stingy.

MATT: “This is the Trickfoot Special. Been distilling while you were away.”

LIAM: How much you got of that, old man?

MATT: “Ah, about two casks.”

ASHLEY: All right. I drink the whole rest of the bottle.

MATT: It is awful. It is like potato moonshine in its most basic form. It is–

LAURA: Pike's going to be so fucked up.

MATT: You probably singed your eyebrows just putting the bottle near your face, which you don't realize, halfway through the bottle as you drink it, you pick up, oh, it burns. This burns.

TRAVIS: Welcome to Ren Faire.

TALIESIN: Original recipe Windex. My favorite.

ASHLEY: It's a little stronger than I remember it.

LIAM: Hey, Pike's at disadvantage for the rest of the day.

ASHLEY: Oh no. Would you all– there's plenty more, would you all like to join me and have a sip?

SAM: I'm okay, I'm okay for now.

TRAVIS: Yeah, hook it up, homie.

TALIESIN: It's been a day. I will.

MATT: “Let me get the cups.” And he goes and opens the cabinet and there's shattered glass. “Okay, no cups.”

MARISHA: It's fine.

MATT: “Bottle it is.”

SAM: Pass the bottle.

MATT: You guys pass the bottle around, finish off the bottle, it's–

LAURA: Finish the bottle?

MATT: Well, she took most of it.

ASHLEY: I think we should make a meal. He's a very good cook.

SAM: Is the kitchen even functional here?

LIAM: Is there food?

LAURA: You know what we should do?

MARISHA: Eat food and talk about a plan?

LAURA: Bring him into the mansion.

TALIESIN: We could bring him into the mansion.

SAM: We do need time to rest and plan.

TALIESIN: We still have one more stop before the evening's done.

LAURA: You can show his people that work at the mansion how to cook, 'cause they are terrible, I can tell you that much.

SAM: They're great at one dish.

MATT: “You have a mansion?”

SAM: I do! I'm quite successful as gnomes go, in fact, before we–

MATT: “Pike. He has a mansion.”

ASHLEY: He does. He does have a mansion. It's a magic mansion.

TRAVIS: Is Wilhand drunk right now?

MATT: He looks like he's coping with the past week's events.

TRAVIS: Insight check his soberness.

LAURA: He's been drunk the whole time.

SAM: Should we make the mansion, get Wilhand a room, and then go to our last destination of this night before we turn in?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we could do that.

LIAM: Yeah Grog, how long do you reckon we have before your cousin wants to either talk or get busy?

TRAVIS: I don't know.

SAM: Are we supposed to meet up with him later tonight?

TRAVIS: He said, at dawn, we– Wait, at dawn we fight, or at dawn we plan?

MARISHA: I don't think I've ever heard anyone say “at dawn, we plan.” So I'm going to assume–

ASHLEY: At dawn, we plan!

SAM: At dawn, we rise and make a plan!

TALIESIN: At dawn, we quorum!

MARISHA: At dawn, we Microsoft Excel!

MATT: You get the sense he meant at dawn, to make an aggressive action.

TALIESIN: So we have two stops before the evening's done then.

LAURA: Wait, where are we going?

SAM: There's a house we're supposed to plunder.

TALIESIN: There's a house we're supposed to plunder, and we should plunder it.

TRAVIS: Aw, really, do we give a shit about it?

TALIESIN: Yes, we do.

TRAVIS: No, you're right, we do.

LAURA: Oh right, Master Quall.

TALIESIN: Master Quall, and I will admit, I'm vaguely indifferent about whether or not he gets his property back, but I am very keen to find out what that property is, and what else he left if he left that.

TRAVIS: Why don't we set up the mansion in Wilhand's house, we'll go and run our errand, and we'll come back and he'll have gotten the kitchen all up to spec.

LIAM: Yeah, seeing as we might be tangling with a black dragon tomorrow, an old one, I think maybe that stuff off you're talking about–

TALIESIN: –god forbid.

LIAM: No, I don't think it's a good idea, but if it should happen– if we get, I wanted to say railroaded into it, but I don't know what that is. We'll probably need every bit of edge we can get, so I actually agree with you for the moment, Percival, we should stop by this house.

TALIESIN: This is terrifying and this is proof that we should do it, then.

MARISHA: Can we get an early, 12 Angry Men raise of hands on who if they want to fight the dragon or not? Do we want to do this?

TALIESIN: Who wants to fight the dragon tomorrow?

SAM: Yeah, I'm down. We've got 40 goliaths with us, this is the best time to attack. No? I'm alone here?

LAURA: It's true, it's true, I mean, it could be one of the best times to attack.

TALIESIN: I would like to do three more days of research and planning–

TRAVIS: So can we make the door? Wilhand's starting to turn green.

LIAM: I mean, it's a big conversation that we should have.

SAM: Let's table it.

LIAM: The where-when-how is pretty huge.

TRAVIS: Wilhand, just give me the bottle, take it easy.

TALIESIN: I feel that that's not something we do spur of the moment.

SAM: All right. Let's get this man to safety and then we'll finish up our errands for the day, yes?

LAURA: Is there anything you want to bring with you?

MATT: “Uh–” He starts walking over to the shrine, and he takes it off with his hand. “That's all I need.” As the head rolls off.

TRAVIS: Never saw anything.

ASHLEY: We'll fix it.

MATT: “It's fine. They took ol' Davin, too.”

SAM: What, who?

MATT: Davin was your neighbor.

ASHLEY: Davin was my neighbor.

SAM: Is he gone, is he dead?

MARISHA: Didn't we meet Davin?

MATT: You didn't meet Davin, no.

MATT: “They dragged a bunch to the iron stocks. I could only hide. Your uncle's a coward, Pike. I'm sorry. I should've helped.” You get the sense now the alcohol's kicked in and he's started to go through his emotional process now.

LAURA: He's your uncle? I thought he was your grandfather.

ASHLEY: He's my great-grandfather.

SAM: And uncle?

LIAM: He's drunk.

MATT: Very drunk.

TALIESIN: Come on, no more of that talk.

LIAM: Grandfather. Let me carry that for you, before you drop it. I'll keep it safe. I'll keep it safe for you. You don't want the head to fall off it.

MATT: “No, its head's fine. Okay.” Passes it over.

LIAM: I subtly pick up the head from the ground.

ASHLEY: So we can put him in the mansion?

SAM: All right, yes, I'll make the mansion.

ASHLEY: All right. I kiss him on his forehead and say: it's going to be okay. Go in there, take a nap, and show them how to cook.

MATT: “I will. You come back soon, my dumpling.” And he squeezes your cheek a little bit. (whispers) “He has a mansion.”

ASHLEY: (whispers) What?

MATT: (whispers) “A mansion!”

LAURA: (whispers) And he's super interested in her.

MATT: “You're of marrying age, young Pike.”

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

ASHLEY: We'll talk about it later.

MATT: “I'll tell you how it is.”

ASHLEY: What?

MATT: “Mansion. I'll tell you how it is.”

ASHLEY: Oh, I've been there! You can go stay–

MATT: “You've been to his mansion?”

ASHLEY: I have my own room. You can go stay in my room.

MATT: “I don't know if I want to–”

ASHLEY: Hey Scanlan, how will he know which room is my room?

SAM: Your room is the one covered in rose petals.

MATT: “Show me the mansion.”

SAM: So I will cast the spell, I'll sit down and start humming. (singing) My house is a very, very, very fine house. With chickens everywhere. It used to be so fair–

MATT: As the shimmering doorway is conjured in the center of the room.

SAM: I take him in, I show him to his room.

MATT: The door opens and he looks inside. “Whoa.” Turns around to you, looking at you through the doorway. “It's big.”

ASHLEY: It's very big.

SAM: Here, come with me. I take him upstairs, take him to his room. And before I bid him adieu I say: later tonight we can discuss more, but I would like to ask for your granddaughter's hand in marriage. But I'll need your permission first.

MATT: I need you to roll a hell of a persuasion check on this one.

LIAM: Roll for initiative, Sam.

ASHLEY: Roll for initiative.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

SAM: Well, it's a 20.

MARISHA: Shut up!

SAM: But that's low for me.

TALIESIN: No, it is.

MATT: He goes: “I'll think about it. I'd like to see more of your fine abode.”

SAM: I call for five servants, and I instruct them to take him wherever he'd like to go and give him whatever he needs.

LIAM: (Wilhand voice) “Wine cellar!”

MATT: They begin taking him on a tour of the grand estate.

SAM: Don't be cheap with the chicken! All right, so I scoot out back to rejoin our friends.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I assume at some point we're taking a short rest, by the way.

MATT: You guys took a short rest the end of the last session.

TALIESIN: Oh lordy, thank you.

MATT: So if you wanted to use any hit dice to heal yourself at that time.

ASHLEY: I would like to go check my room out and see how it is. See if it's okay, any damage.

MATT: Your room is intact. It's a little dirty and some of the crumbled stone and roof part pushed its way into the room across the floor, but for the most part your room is intact. Wilhand's room, which was the main room on the upper floor, was the one that got destroyed by the fallen rubble.

ASHLEY: Right.

MATT: All right. What's the plan?

SAM: Should we split the party and send a few people to pillage this house that we were instructed to pillage?

TALIESIN: We can all do it. Let's do it together.

MARISHA: Yes, I feel like this would be a group outing.

ASHLEY: I wanted to grab something under the bed. I'm going to take it and I'm going to hide it.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: But there was some talk of needing someone to take us through the sewers, and I can go fetch someone who knows the sewers.

LIAM: I think we need to maybe have a talk about what we're doing.

TALIESIN: Talk before that happens.

LIAM: Before finding your friend.

MARISHA: Time is of the essence.

LIAM: You're talking about Mr. D, I know, yeah.

SAM: Well, or someone with him, yes.

LIAM: Right. It's a good idea, but I think we need to figure out what we're doing first.

SAM: Sure. What are we doing?

LIAM: I have no fucking clue.

MARISHA: What are we doing, actually?

TALIESIN: First, we're robbing an old man.

TRAVIS: Can we walk and talk?

LAURA: Yeah, we walk and talk.

SAM: Where's Master Quall's–

LAURA: It's at the fountain crossroads–

SAM: –brick two-story house near the fountain?

MARISHA: Before we walk and talk, do we get the general idea that it's safe to walk through the city right now without being murdered? Considering we just put on the most epic Avengers-style display.

MATT: Right, and some people are coming to the streets, though moving quickly from destination to destination. Word has gotten around and there's been a general sense of release throughout the city. You do pass a few of the Herd members, some of which are gathering their supplies, gathering their arms, some of them are dragging the bodies of friends that had died in previous frays or just haven't been tended to. And all of them keep a very intense eye on you. Nothing aggressive, but not friendly either.

TALIESIN: I think we have to convince Kevdak to abandon this plan to attack the dragon–

LIAM: He's dead, he's not going to do it.

TALIESIN: Oh, no, Kevdak, wrong one, I'm sorry. You all look vaguely the same to me, I'm sorry.

LAURA: Percival!

LIAM: Except for this one.

TALIESIN: No, he's got the beard. And the ability to kill me in my sleep.

TRAVIS: I'm a unique little snowflake, I take no offense.

TALIESIN: I find you charming.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

TALIESIN: But no, we have to convince them not to do this tomorrow.

TRAVIS: Really?

LAURA: Well, honestly, isn't the dragon going to come pick up its loot in the next couple days? It's happening tomorrow?

TALIESIN: I think that perhaps if it's possible to convince them to at least wait one more cycle to heal and prepare for the battle–

TRAVIS: I don't know if we'll be alive in the morning. I don't know if it's occurred to any of you, but I don't particularly feel safe. I'm glad we got out of there–

LAURA: I'm glad we have a mansion to hide in.

TRAVIS: I'm glad we have a mansion, I'm glad we have a Vestige because of it, but look, I got abandoned once. Think anything's changed since then?

LAURA: They're not good people. They killed a lot of innocents.

TALIESIN: I genuinely don't understand the place you come from.

TRAVIS: No, neither do I. But I don't really understand much things.

TALIESIN: I feel much better about any decision to just leave then, although we would have to do something about the city and everyone who's in it.

LIAM: Yeah, there's a lot to think about, there are a lot of people still here, and I personally don't think attacking that dragon in the next few days is a wise decision. But if we do leave, what do we do with these people? They're going to be run over by these people.

LAURA: It's possible we can wait for all of the goliaths and other barbarians to attack the dragon, and when they all leave the city, we bar them out, take the city back.

SAM: And hold it against a dragon?

LAURA: Well. The dragon could be content fighting them. We take the time and get everyone else out of the city.

TALIESIN: Are they clever enough to attack the dragon at the point at which the drop is made, or are they going to not make the drop and wait for the dragon to attack the city?

TRAVIS: Look, if it was the day before yesterday I would have said they're all fools and they're going to do it the stupid way, but I think I underestimated 'em a bit, so yeah. I think they might be a bit clever.

MARISHA: We also have your cousin Zanror now at the head, which seems a little bit more clever than Kevdak ever was.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We also have to empty out the prisons if we get that chance of any of the citizens they may be holding.

MARISHA: Well, look, it's not a bad call, the dragons seem to be interested in the power that they hold over the people. There's no people, no power.

TALIESIN: Will your cousin understand that we have a bigger battle to fight?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: On the other hand–

SAM: This is our battle, we're trying to kill these dragons!

LAURA: –when are we going to have a better opportunity to kill a fucking dragon than with 40 giant strapping–

SAM: Two Vestiges, an army of 40 barbarians.

LIAM: Are we going to have this discussion right here, in the street?

TALIESIN: Well, we're walking while we're having it.

LIAM: How are we going to deal with one of the largest dragons we've ever seen in the air? What are 40 goliaths going to do with something 500 feet above us, spitting bile from above?

MARISHA: He has to land to get his treasure.

SAM: We're going to have to make that plan at some point.

TALIESIN: If I had time, if I had a few days–

LIAM: You've got a day and a half, maximum.

MARISHA: If we had a little bit of time or if we're really, really smart, we could theoretically rig the most epic dragon trap ever.

TALIESIN: We could.

LIAM: Do you think your cousin would hold for a couple more days? Could he see the sense of planning that longer?

LAURA: We can't leave the people in this city under the rule of any more of these monsters.

TALIESIN: Which is why we should get them to flee.

LAURA: We have to get people out.

MARISHA: Right, because even if we somehow by some insane chance defeat the dragon, cool, we've defeated the dragon and now the city is still under control by the Herd.

TALIESIN: Well, the Herd will leave, I think.

LAURA: Will they? After they ransack everything again?

LIAM: Well, that's what Grog pitched to them.

TRAVIS: Here's my vote, so I can have it said. I would rather get everyone that doesn't want to die in this town out to that encampment. If we take this meeting with Zanror, we will no longer be able to walk away. There could be a total chance that they all turn on us right then. In the throne room, in the yard, wherever we are. We could leave now.

LAURA: How do we get everyone out?

MARISHA: You and Zanror seemed to have a mutual respect.

TRAVIS: Yeah, because I just saved his life. For a second. I also beat his ass when he was little, and let me tell you a thing about grudges: they don't go away.

MARISHA: So you don't think he would hesitate in a second to turn on us?

TRAVIS: No, he's a little man, and little men have Napoleon complexes. He's this horrible elf from the West.

SAM: I do have a Napoleon complex.

TALIESIN: I've seen it, it's huge.

ASHLEY: But if everybody is out of the town, and it's empty, then won't the dragon know?

TALIESIN: Yes. It'll be furious.

ASHLEY: And then won't he leave?

LAURA: And he'll come find us.

LIAM: Anything we do here, anything we do to that dragon, anything we do in the city is likely to be known by the other wyrms.

MARISHA: Sure.

TALIESIN: Eventually, yes.

LIAM: So if we kill that dragon, what do the other dragons do in that moment, and are we ready to take on Thordak right now?

SAM: No! We kill it and run.

LAURA: But we can't kill all of them at the same time. It's got to be a one-by-one process.

LIAM: Absolutely, but are we going to try to kill the black and then go on a hunt for all these–

MARISHA: There are going to be consequences to this no matter what.

TALIESIN: How big is the black dragon?

MATT: From what you saw? Oh man.

TRAVIS: Bigger than the blue, bigger than the white?

MATT: It was bigger than the blue, about equal size to the white.

LAURA: The white one that we killed, or the white one that we also saw?

MATT: The one that you fought at the Keep–

LAURA: Yeah, that one was real bad.

TRAVIS: Where I rolled a 21 and it missed.

MATT: Yeah, it was, I'd say from height size of standing on its legs, probably, I dunno, 30 to 40 feet tall?

MARISHA: We've never fought like a full realized dragon, correct?

MATT: You've fought them.

LIAM: We've run from them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, remember 21 missed. I can't believe I'm saying this–

LAURA: Yeah, but all those guys, they were, I mean. They had strong attacks.

TRAVIS: Right, but there might be some that can hit him when he's in the air, but not all of them.

TALIESIN: If I– if I had time I could build a machine that might be able to trap him on the ground for at least a little while.

TRAVIS: Yeah, if you had time. Why are we being in such a rush about this?

SAM: Because we know where the dragon is, we have an army, we have an opportunity, this is it. We're never going to have an army.

TALIESIN: I think– I disagree with that, I think we'll absolutely have opportunities to have an army. And I think that if we call upon the Herd later for something like this, maybe we can get them– I don't know.

ASHLEY: How much time are you thinking?

TALIESIN: As much time as it takes.

MARISHA: You can't build a machine like that in under, what, a few weeks?

SAM: And what if the machine fails? We need a plan that doesn't rely on technology, I'm sorry.

LAURA: What if we put out the loot, let him come down and get it, and then we throw big ropes up and over him or something?

MARISHA: I feel like between Pike and Scanlan and I– Well, look, I feel like between Pike, Scanlan, and I and Percy with his mechanical genius, we can figure something amongst the spells that we know to make a viable trap.

SAM: If we have 40 goliaths throw 40 chains attached to–

TRAVIS: They're not all goliaths.

SAM: Fine. 30 goliaths would throw 30 chains with 30 spikes on them at this dragon, I bet a few would hit.

ASHLEY: I could throw up a Blade Barrier on top of him.

SAM: Yes, we are super powerful. They're strong, we're smart, let's do this.

LIAM: If we kill it now, we're going to have to be– if we kill it now, all the others are going to punish the people they're sitting upon, and we're not ready to go dragon to dragon to dragon like that.

LAURA: Will they? Dragons are vain, how do you know they won't just find that dragon weak and think that he's not worthy of them–

LIAM: They're going to know that something challenged his power and there are going to be consequences for it, they'll make a display of their strength.

MARISHA: I have a feeling they were very upset when we killed the blue one.

SAM: So what, we're never going to kill any of the dragons, then? Because that will happen at some point.

LIAM: We will. We will. It's–

SAM: And they won't react then? It's– this is our mission, to kill these dragons.

MARISHA: Once again, there's going to be consequences no matter what we do.

MATT: At this point, you guys have, as you hit the end of your sentence, Percy, you all look up and you all see the two-story building with a dark red brick contrasting against Wilhand's home, it's a deep-set heavy brick with dark wood siding to it, and it looks like dark marble finishes certain elements of the base of it, it matches the description that was given to you by Quall.

LAURA: Does it look like it's been ransacked at all?

MATT: It looks like the door is partially ajar.

MARISHA: Partially ajar?

TALIESIN: Why don't we see how our favor holds? Let's take a moment.

SAM: All right. If we find something cool, we kill the dragon.

MARISHA: Oh, we're leaving this up to a coin flip, now?

TRAVIS: 20 or a one, seems to work well for us.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm curious what the fates would say.

MARISHA: (sighs) I don't give a shit what the fates have to say.

LAURA: I do have a coin with a 20 and a one on it.

MATT: All right. So what's the plan?

LAURA: Are we going– Silently, quietly walking up to the front door?

TALIESIN: Vax, if you would be so kind?

LAURA: It's already partially ajar.

ASHLEY: Should we check it for traps first?

TALIESIN: Check for traps.

MATT: All right, if you want to make an investigation check.

LIAM: Investigation, or is it– perception is normally what I've done for traps, isn't it?

MATT: Investigation's for traps, perception is to notice how to disarm it.

LIAM: All right. 27.

MATT: 27. You approach the front door, doesn't appear to be trapped, you open partly the door and the interior, fireplace is still going, and you see the crackle in the distance, fine furniture set up. There is the body of a goliath face-down on the ground about five feet from the front door, head splattered across the ground.

LIAM: Oh, he's dead.

MATT: You also look around the circumstances, and you glance upward to where his head would be, and amongst all these stone tiles in the ceiling, there's one that's set slightly lower than the rest, right above where that splatter occurred.

ALL: (whispers) Traps!

TRAVIS: A warm fire! And I run– no.

(laughter)

LIAM: (Grog voice) It's a little brave, running around.

TALIESIN: Well, this is exactly what I was hoping for.

LIAM: I need a minute, everybody. Everybody hang back, just for a second.

TRAVIS: Yeah, do you want me to hang outside?

LIAM: Yeah, Vex'ahlia, could you come here?

LAURA: Of course, brother.

LIAM: Yeah. This is a death box, this room is a death box. And I have a keen eye, but I wouldn't mind another set.

LAURA: D'you want me to look around?

LIAM: I'd like us both to look around.

LAURA: From out here?

LIAM: No, I said come inside.

LAURA: I can actually walk in?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: All right. I stand exactly in front of the door and don't take any more steps.

LIAM: Come in. Aww, you're my bestie. All right, I'm going to start looking around for traps.

LAURA: I look for traps visually.

MATT: Both of you guys make investigation checks as you slowly move forward at a slow pace.

SAM: Can I assist you guys?

LIAM: Well, you know, your music does calm and soothe me–

SAM: Not with music, I'll send an invisible guy in there to start pressing on the floor and walls.

LAURA: Oh, well, give us just a moment. Yeah, but that's a good idea. 24.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: Okay. The two of you guys scoot forward, and you find there are four different pillars in the ceiling that are arranged in a similar way. They are triggered by a little bit of pressure, and you see there's a rug that oversets it, you can see the slight variations in the texture of the ground where the actual trigger plates are. You get the sensation that this house was going to be ransacked, and then the troop that came in, one of them went (crushing noise) and they went nooope and backed out of the house.

(laughter)

MATT: You eventually find your way across this area, marking quietly with an arrow or scraping the carpet where each one of these places are, but you make your way across the room to a staircase that leads up, staircase that leads down.

LIAM: Bullshit, bullshit, lotta bullshit. All right, guys, I think it's safe to come into the first room. So you said, because I was being a jackass and saying bullshit, what was the description you just gave?

LAURA: There's stairs, we're at the bottom of the stairs.

MATT: Yeah, there's the main living area that has the fireplace, and then stairs that go up and stairs that go down.

LAURA: Are there doors in this main– it's like a foyer?

MATT: It's like a giant foyer area, there's an area that passes behind the stairs, something that would go into a kitchen area, like a dining room kitchen.

LIAM: Let's not split up, let's do this together.

TALIESIN: He's rich and paranoid, so if anything is of value it'll be downstairs, so I say we do upstairs first.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: Does Trinket wait outside, or is Trinket following you?

LAURA: Ohh. Trinket, dear? Come on, come on, d'you want to go in the locket? You do? If you don't, you can wait out here but it's probably safer in the locket.

MATT: (disgruntled bear noises) Lumbers forward, gives you a look like–

LAURA: Don't be sad about it, if you don't want to, I'm not going to make you.

MATT: Trinket's pulled into the amulet.

LAURA: Ooh, I love him so much.

MATT: Amulet which you've now been in.

LAURA: What was it like, Grog?

TRAVIS: I left a little something in there for him. Time doesn't pass, right? Does time pass in the locket?

MATT: You don't know.

TRAVIS: Well, I farted right before I hopped out.

(laughter)

LIAM: Like a nintendo cartridge.

ASHLEY: (fart noise) Raaaah! Goosh.

TRAVIS: I might not live past this. (fart noise)

(laughter)

MATT: Got to leave your mark.

LAURA: Can we check out the stairs and make sure nothing's wrong with the stairs?

MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and make an investigation check.

LAURA: Oh, I did not see anything.

LIAM: I'm fine. I got a 20.

MATT: Okay. The stairs– As you begin to inspect, you reach out and take the railing and take the first step and your foot passes through the stair.

LIAM: Ooh, that's not solid. At all. Look, put your foot through that.

LAURA: I'm going to stand here and watch you do it, actually.

LIAM: I'm going to get down on my knees and stick my head through the stairs–

LAURA: Oh, what? Are you fucking kidding me right now?

MATT: You go to try and stop him as he pushes his head through the step.

LAURA: You're a moron!

LIAM: I know!

MATT: You pass through this illusory staircase, and you look up and you can see the bottom half of the staircase. This area is a slide that descends into darkness. You having your darkvision can see that the slide descends into a now-cold furnace.

LAURA: D'you want to get your whole body in there?

LIAM: But can I see– I pull my head up, what can I see at the top of the stairs, is there a landing?

MATT: No, you look up and if you, from where the illusion is the illusory stairs stop at a ceiling, a stone ceiling that leads down, you can't look past it, looking up you can see a landing and a secondary floor.

LIAM: Okay. Is there any stray furniture around?

MATT: Yeah, there's precariously placed–

LIAM: Are there any shitty pillows or anything?

MATT: Yeah, there's like a couple throw pillows on the couch that are by the–

LAURA: What are shitty pillows?

LIAM: I totally ignore my sister, which is what I've done half my entire life, and I stick my head down and I let it go and watch it go down the slide.

LAURA: Was that fun? Was that fu–

MATT: (roar-of-fire sound) You guys watch as a jet of flame jettisons out from the staircase.

(laughter)

MATT: Singes the top of the roof area, where there's a bunch of wood, but the wood is not burned or charred and the flames die down again.

LIAM: Hey, y'know, it wasn't fun, but it was educational, shithead. And I walk over and stop at the edge of the stairs going down, you said there were stairs going down?

MARISHA: Who the fuck is this guy?

TALIESIN: I don't know, I certainly like him.

LIAM: Same thing, I want to see– could you help me over here?

LAURA: I'm looking, I'm checking out those stairs too.

LIAM: Wise-arse.

LAURA: I wouldn't have slid down the fucking slide, I would assume that leads to death. I don't need to throw a pillow down the slide to know–

LIAM: You are very smart and wise. You know, we could be dead tomorrow, do you want to keep arguing with me like this?

LAURA: No. 21.

LIAM: Yeah, I got higher than that. 26.

LAURA: Dick.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I could watch this all day.

MATT: The staircase descends, solid stairs. Partway down, you do see a slight carving in the stone, a glyph of some kind that is faintly hidden with dust and dirt placed to fill the gap. There is some sort of a symbol ever-so-faintly hidden in the stone halfway down.

LAURA: Can we read it? Do we understand it?

LIAM: D'you know, the last time I saw something like that, the carpet was fucked. Do you think Wilhand would have any idea–?

LAURA: The carpet?

LIAM: Yeah, the– no, the other carpet.

LAURA: Maybe Scanlan has an idea what it is. Scanlan!

SAM: Oi!

LAURA: You know this rune over here?

SAM: This– what? I don't even see what you're talking about.

LAURA: This little glowy rune right here. Look closely.

SAM: Oh! I would've totally missed that.

(laughter)

SAM: I think that I have not seen anything like this before, but have I?

MATT: Make an arcana check.

SAM: 13.

MATT: It appears to be magical in nature. The symbols elude you, their construct, the arcane equation that is based around this, you can't tell if it's still functional or not, but it is magical in its construction.

SAM: Want to throw a pillow down there?

LIAM: What an interesting idea.

LAURA: I go get a pillow and I throw it at the rune.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

LAURA: How'd it work, does that, is that how you're supposed to do it?

MATT: The pillow– (impact) down the stairs.

LIAM: Yeah, you did it wrong, see, nothing happened.

(laughter)

SAM: Well, go get the pillow, try again.

MARISHA: Try a lumbar. Maybe a different result.

LAURA: So wait wait wait, the last time you saw runes like this, you lost the carpet. How did you lose the carpet?

LIAM: Well, so, did we never talk about that? Yeah. A bunch of us were riding it– Ah, it was the dwarf, I swear it was the dwarf. We were on the carpet and there were runes on the walls and as soon as we got near the runes the carpet went (raspberry noise) and fell down.

LAURA: So it might disenchant whatever we have on us.

LIAM: Well, it could do that, it could also– I don't know anything about magic, but I assume it could burn us.

LAURA: Well, how do we make it not burn us?

LIAM: Well. (sighs) I mean. Hey, Shorty, you're our best bet here, I don't know anything about this shit.

LAURA: Who can undo magical thingies?

SAM: Not me, Pikey! Pike?

Pike, you got any undo magicky things?

MATT: This would be a Dispel Magic spell, for the record.

ASHLEY: Yeah, I have Dispel Magic.

MATT: You have it prepared?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Then yeah, you could give it a shot.

SAM: You're my girl!

TALIESIN: I could try my Dispel Magic ability.

LIAM: What's that one?

TALIESIN: It's called a bullet. I'll shoot it until it doesn't work anymore.

MATT: All righty. So. Pike. So as you step forward, they point out this glyph on the wall. You're going to cast Dispel Magic on it, I need you to go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spellcasting ability modifier, which–

LAURA: Whoa! Oh, what is it, what was it?

LIAM: It's a 20 on the floor!

LAURA: If it was bad it doesn't count, but if it's good it does.

MATT: That doesn't count. Roll it intentionally.

LIAM: Good, because it's not that good.

MATT: So, your wisdom modifier is actually a five, because she forgot to add her level 12 bonus we discovered recently. So it's now a 20, plus five on the roll. So go ahead and roll a d20, add five.

ASHLEY: All right. 18.

MATT: 18. As you reach up and grab your symbol of Sarenrae, you focus for a second and there is a flash, like a flashbulb. As it flashes, the glyph glows for a second, and then you hear what sounds like a cracking sound. And this glowing energy seems to shatter, almost like glass made of energy. As the energy fades and falls out of the glyph, it hits the ground and it dissipates into a light mist that then vanishes.

LAURA: Good job, Pike!

ASHLEY: I think it's dispelled?

SAM: I think so.

LIAM: Good job, Pike.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Vax.

MARISHA: We're going up, right? Up or down?

TALIESIN: There were stairs, there was no up.

LIAM: You don't want to go up, there's no up. Up is ouchie.

LAURA: I thought we could skip over that one step and then there was up.

MATT: The stairs from underneath go all the way up to underneath the point, you haven't attempted to go over if you wanted to, it's up to you.

LAURA: Yeah! Yeah, we can jump over that little gap.

LIAM: Oh, I thought you said it went to the ceiling.

MATT: I mean, the stair illusion is the entire staircase. But you haven't– you don't see what's on the actual landing.

MARISHA: You've got the fancy broom.

LIAM: You got the fancy broom, exactly.

LAURA: Hmm, all right, I get on the broom and I float on up to that landing and I look and see if there's any traps on the ground. Without setting foot on it!

LIAM: I've seen you take other people, can I hang off the bottom of that thing? Can you carry me up?

LAURA: I don't know, you're pretty heavy. You might fit–

LIAM: I'm lighter than you!

LAURA: (gasps) It's nothing to brag about, scrawny.

LIAM: Look at my constitution, it's very low.

LAURA: Minus two! I am equally scrawny.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We're learning so much tonight! God!

LAURA: Dangle well onto the bottom, you can hang off the bottom of it.

MARISHA: You guys were born at the same time, you're both scrawny.

SAM: If you're going to do this, I insist that we visually see it with the actual broom.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yes. I second this.

MATT: So. You get onto the broom, bring yourself to rise up, speaking the keyword, which is–

LAURA: (spitting sound)

MATT: There you go.

(laughter)

MATT: As you begin to drift up, Vax, you go ahead and grab onto it.

LIAM: This is stupid!

MATT: As your weight is lifted by the broom, your feet actually fall through the illusion itself.

LAURA: Don't. Fucking. Let go.

MATT: So you guys watch as the lower half of his body vanishes against the stairs as he passes through it.

LIAM: (grunts) I'm checking for traps!

MARISHA: Why is Vax holding on?

TALIESIN: They're working things out, just let it happen.

LIAM: This is a family thing, please keep out!

(laughter)

MATT: You make your way up to the secondary floor. Dark up here, you see there are two rooms. Both doors are open. The one to the right appears to be some sort of a desk, study, bookshelves, but all the books are gone. The desk appears to be cleaned out. Actually, all the drawers are open and there are a couple of haphazard writing utensils that have dropped on the floor, but it looks like Quall was trying to leave in a hurry, grabbed most of what was important to him. Except for one thing, which is what he sent you here to get.

MARISHA: I was going to be like: look for the circlet!

LAURA: Obviously!

MARISHA: Just a reminder.

LIAM: Thank you.

MATT: The other one appears to be a bedroom, there appears to be a garish canopy bed with like spiral edges, with like little gold-leaf imprints into it–

LAURA: Ooh, Master Quall was a little freaky I think. Can we look under the bed?

LAURA: Traps, traps, under the bed. I want to look under the bed.

LIAM: Under the bed, in the bed, around the bed.

LAURA: 17?

LIAM: 23.

MATT: Okay. This room does not appear to be trapped.

LAURA: Can I look under the bed?

MATT: You look under the bed. Under the bed there is a small chest that is pushed to the very back, you pull it out, shhk.

LAURA: I check for traps on the chest.

LIAM: I take three steps back away from my sister.

TRAVIS: You've made her very cautious.

MATT: I, as it tends to. Go ahead and make an investigation check now.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: 26. The chest does not appear to be trapped.

SAM: Ooh, good!

LAURA: I try to open it.

MATT: It is locked.

LAURA: It's locked, it's locked, open it. Open it.

LIAM: You're so good at all my tricks, are you sure?

LAURA: Do you want me to try to pick this lock? Because I am very talented as a rogue.

LIAM: You are extremely talented and you're going to get better and better every day.

LAURA: Well then fine, I'll try to unlock it.

LIAM: All right. I take five more steps backward.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. So you go ahead and take out your lockpick.

LAURA: Is this how you hold it? This is how you hold it, then?

LIAM: Hey man, I don't want to harsh your mellow.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a d20, add your dex and your proficiency bonus, you're proficient in the tools.

LAURA: 24. 24. Is that saving throws or regular? Okay, yeah, 24.

MATT: (click) The lock is open.

LAURA: Hey, look at that!

LIAM: Good job, that's a good job.

LAURA: Thank you. All the gold, all the gold.

MATT: Open it. There's a handful of copper. Looks like the other thing that was within this chest was also taken by Quall on his way out.

LAURA: Ugh. Why would he take the shit out and then lock it and put it back under the bed? What a douche.

LIAM: And aside from traps, is there any like, paintings with eyeholes cut in it for peeking or little holes in the wall?

TALIESIN: Check the chest.

LIAM: What, Percy?

TALIESIN: Check the chest.

LIAM: Does it have a false bottom? The chest.

MATT: It does.

(cheering)

LIAM: C'mon, don't leave me hanging, what the hell!

MATT: You move some of the copper out of the way, and you feel for it, as you push on one corner, the floor of the actual chest shifts a little bit. You lift it up and–

LIAM: You've always got to check it for a false bottom.

LAURA: I did, I did, I checked!

LIAM: You didn't say shit!

LAURA: I was saying it, I said I'm checking all around the fucking chest, that's what I said!

LIAM: Hmmm, I didn't hear the words 'false bottom' out loud.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: At the bottom of this you see a key. A single brass-colored key.

LAURA: It's a key.

LIAM: That's right, you're smart.

LAURA: You know what? We're going to get downstairs and this key is going to unlock the thing that has the circlet, I know it.

LIAM: I think you're right. You know what else?

LAURA: What?

LIAM: We don't need to argue like this.

LAURA: I love you.

LIAM: Yeah?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Why're you always busting my balls, then?

LAURA: Because it's fun.

LIAM: I'm sure it is, but y'know, getting hit in the nuts hurts.

TALIESIN: Double-check the bedroom for safes or things behind paintings or maybe some sort of carpet–

LAURA: I'm sorry, who's talking, who is this?

TALIESIN: It's the voice of reason, coming from downstairs.

(laughter)

LIAM: Is it, though? Is it really?

TALIESIN: I know, I'm just as depressed that it is as you are.

LAURA: I double-check the room for– What would you like me to look for again?

TALIESIN: Check paintings, behind the paintings, check the bed for any odd slidey bits.

MARISHA: Percy is a paranoid rich person, so he knows things about them.

TALIESIN: Trust paranoid rich people to know.

MATT: Make a general investigation check throughout the room as you search for any nooks and crannies, hidden spaces.

LAURA: I rolled a one.

LIAM: Well, investigation again? 20.

MATT: Okay. You come to the conclusion that there is nothing else to find in this room.

LAURA: Nothing else to find, I found the key, dammit.

MATT: You look behind one of the paintings, and– it's a wall behind it.

(laughter)

MATT: The room appears to be for the most part cleaned out from your discovery here.

LIAM: There was more than one room though, right? You said–

LAURA: Yeah, we checked all the rooms. We checked the other room already.

MATT: You checked the bedroom, now you looked within the office study with a desk and all the drawers were left open and things have already been taken from the room.

LIAM: Okay, let's take that key downstairs. As you said.

LAURA: Hop on the broom.

LIAM: I don't want to sit behind you, I'll hang from it again. It's gross.

LAURA: You can sit sidesaddle.

MATT: You glide your way down, back to the main floor. You guys are now at the top of the stairs leading into the basement, what're you going to do?

SAM: Let's go down to the basement!

LAURA: Hey, I like this plan.

LIAM: Oh, yeah. I'll go a little ways ahead.

LAURA: (whispers) Look, Percy, I found a key!

LIAM: Checking for traps. Past– I'll go up to the sigil.

MATT: So roll a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Oh, shite.

LAURA: What did you just do?

LIAM: I don't know but I will have a high– 23.

MATT: Okay. As you step past the glyph, the wood beneath your foot creaks and you instinctually leap forward, landing on your feet. Nothing happens.

(laughter)

LIAM: I love you, Matt, so much.

(laughter)

LIAM: You just always have to be alert, you never know, sometimes you think you know but you don't actually know!

SAM: There was nothing there, Vax.

LIAM: Now I know.

MARISHA: The PTSD is really starting to sink in.

LIAM: Three-point landing! Okay, we're fine!

MARISHA: While they were up there dicking around, we were looking around at the middle floor, anything good?

SAM: No, we were not going anywhere near the pressure points, by the way.

MARISHA: Well, that is without being said.

MATT: I mean, other than the rooms you guys went into, there was the dining room area and the kitchen area.

MARISHA: Anything good that looks–

MATT: Investigation checks from both you guys.

TALIESIN: I hate investigation checks.

TALIESIN: 13.

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: Okay. Are you letting them wander and you're staying where you are?

SAM: I'm not going with them. No way, there are terrible bombs and stuff there.

MATT: All right. So, Keyleth, you wander through the dining area towards the kitchen–

MARISHA: Being very gentle.

MATT: Percy, you scope around the other side, checking around elements–

TALIESIN: Not touching anything, just looking.

MATT: Right. Nothing catches your attention specifically. You get to the kitchen, the kitchen is cold, layer of dust. Doesn't appear to be anything of particular interest in there.

TALIESIN: Hm. All right.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Downstairs it is.

LIAM: You know what, appreciate your rogues is all I'm saying, am I right or am I right?

MATT: So. You guys who wish to head down into the basement–

SAM: I'm going downstairs.

MATT: Grog, you're still staying outside?

TRAVIS: Yeah, actually, can Trinket and I walk to the other side of the street?

LAURA: Trinket's in my locket.

TRAVIS: Can I walk to the other side of the street?

LAURA: But do you want Trinket with you?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Okay, so you walk to the other side of the street on your own.

TRAVIS: Yeah, and I watch the house from across the street.

LIAM: Stakeout.

TRAVIS: Yeah, since this is taking a bit, it's not a short rest is it, if I'm chilling?

MATT: I mean, if you sit for like up to half an hour or an hour rest, then yeah.

TRAVIS: Nah, I'm just watching.

MATT: Okay. All right, you guys make it down to the basement area. This is a very, very small room, 20 by 20 feet, and there is a door, a big heavy-ass metallic door that has–

LIAM: –a keyhole?

MATT: A very specific keyhole, yes.

LIAM: Wait wait wait wait– Yes, yes we will, but hold on, can I have a look at it? Can you have a look at it? We'll just take a look. And then you do it.

MARISHA: Aw, look, they're doing it together.

TALIESIN: It's adorable, isn't it?

LIAM: Shut up back there! It's easy to make mistakes!

LAURA: 25.

LIAM: 20.

MATT: There is some sort of an enchantment on the door, and the keyhole area itself. You can't ascertain the nature of it, but as you approach you can see that the metallic sheen shimmers without the light changing. There is something about it that is unnatural.

LIAM: Shit.

LAURA: (whispers) Hey, Pike. Do you think you can try dispelling magic again? Because there's some shimmery sort of shit on this door and I don't trust it.

ASHLEY: Yeah, it's really pretty, but lemme give it a try.

MARISHA: It's iridescent!

ASHLEY: Let's leave it, it's so pretty!

SAM: Wait wait wait. Before you dispel the magic–

LAURA: What?

SAM: Maybe it's good, maybe that's how the key works? If you dispel the magic, maybe the key won't work anymore, I don't know.

ASHLEY: I mean, that key was hidden for a reason.

SAM: Is there magic on the key?

LAURA: If I stick it in and I turn it and it explodes and I die, oh, I don't know, that's never happened before–

SAM: Okay, dispel the magic, yeah, no that's good.

ASHLEY: I might need some extra help because I only got a ten.

SAM: Can I inspire her retroactively?

MATT: Nope. As you mark off your second third-level spell, releasing the Dispel Magic, the shimmer intensifies for a moment on the door and then returns to its natural state.

LAURA: Shit.

SAM: I think it worked.

TALIESIN: Do we have anybody who has Telekinesis? Telekinesis of any kind?

MARISHA: Telekinesis? No.

SAM: Wait, I can have, I can have someone–

LAURA: Oh, your invisible servant!

SAM: I can have someone turn the key, if that's what we're talking about.

LAURA: Yeah, go do that!

TALIESIN: Make someone expendable, it's a brilliant idea.

LAURA: Let's all step back, step way back. Back it up, back it up.

MARISHA: Wait wait wait.

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: What if it explodes the lock and then we're not able to get in at all?

SAM: Then waah, we go kill a dragon instead.

LIAM: Well. Sort of, yeah yeah yeah.

TALIESIN: Then at dawn, we talk about things.

SAM: At dawn, we discuss!

MARISHA: We plan!

SAM: At dawn!

TRAVIS: I already had my great moment, all right?

MATT: So what're you doing, Scanlan?

SAM: Can Unseen Servant carry a key, or is it more Mage Hand-y?

MATT: Yeah, I mean, a key's not– Mage Hand can even do five pounds on its own.

SAM: I'll do Unseen Servant, named Mort.

ALL: Mort.

MATT: There's a slight shift of wind. And while you guys see nothing after the wind fades, you know Mort is with you.

LAURA: I'm holding the key up to Mort. I don't know where he is.

SAM: He's right in front of you! Don't be rude to Mort!

MATT: Nothing happens.

SAM: Oh. Mort. Take the key.

MATT: The key lifts out of your hand.

TALIESIN: That's very unsettling.

MATT: It's now in the middle of the air.

TALIESIN: Okay, let's everyone back up.

SAM: I have to wait six seconds. All right.

MARISHA: I want to throw up a Gust cantrip in front of us to help shield us if anything happens.

MATT: A light breeze shimmers before you. What're you going to do?

SAM: Mort. Open the door with the key.

MATT: The key drifts over, finds, turns, enters the keyhole. Turns to the side. The metal around the keyhole begins to glow brighter and brighter and brighter for a second. The outer rim of the door itself begins to glow accordingly, like the actual frame of the metal door begins to go from this dull, dull old iron look to this almost red to orange to white-hot vision and then fades to darkness, and the door (creaking).

SAM: Would've burned us!

LAURA: Hey, maybe?

LIAM: Not us, not us.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Is your unseen servant okay?

SAM: Ah, he's fine, yeah? He's fine.

LAURA: I walk through the gust of wind and get my hair tousled.

MATT: You go through. Your hair gets tousled. You unintentionally shoulder-check Mort.

LAURA: Sorry, Mort.

LIAM: I'm going to see if I can see any traps inside the room.

MATT: Sure. Investigation check.

LIAM: Yeah. Doesn't matter. 20.

MATT: Stepping into the room, you do see that this is a chamber familiar to you. You actually had a room similar to this in your keep. This is, specifically, an arcane sanctuary. This is used for the construction and the enchantment and the development of various arcane items. Similar to– you've seen the chamber before at Gilmore's, although on smaller scale. This has seen various types of use. There's an alchemical setup in one corner, untouched.

LIAM: Wait, Scanlan.

SAM: Oi!

LIAM: Would you and your light-footed friend like to join me in here?

SAM: Sure, I'll come.

LIAM: Yeah?

SAM: Yes. Mort. Join me.

MATT: Mort has joined you.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: I don't want to touch anything in here. I don't see any traps–

TALIESIN: I want to touch everything in here.

MARISHA: I do too.

LIAM: Have at it. And I back up.

SAM: All right, let's go pillage! I'll start looking around and looting.

MATT: Perception check.

TALIESIN: I'm going to gingerly start looking to see if anything is useful, because I have a lot of plans.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Five.

MATT: The architecture catches your attention.

SAM: Ahh, it's beautiful.

TALIESIN: 14.

MATT: Okay. And what did you say you were going to do?

MARISHA: I wanted to head towards the alchemical stuff to see if there's–

MATT: Setup, okay, there's various glass beakers–

MARISHA: Supplies.

MATT: I mean, there are supplies. You can see there are. There is a small rack that has many glass vials that contain ground materials, liquids, various metals, they're all labeled– what languages do you know?

MARISHA: Primordial, Druidic, Sylvan. Elven.

MATT: Oh, Elven? You're not able to read the actual label.

TALIESIN: Celestial. Can I read any of it?

MATT: What other languages do you know?

TALIESIN: Common, Celestial, Elven.

MATT: Also can't read it.

TALIESIN: Would I recognize any of the alchemical symbols?

MATT: From what you can tell, there's symbols for, you know, mercurial liquid metals. There are many different herbal elements that are in here. There are a few that the design on the label shows toxicity. You see there are iron filings, all these things that are used in various– You have the brew potion ability, correct?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you also recognize some of these are used in the process of preparing liquids with an easy-to-accept presentation when you're enchanting and brewing a potion.

MARISHA: I start clearing out the materials and throw them in my bag.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can I look around for a fucking circlet?

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: What were you saying, Scanlan?

SAM: Don't you have some ability that you can find magical objects?

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16? You look around the room. You don't see a circlet, but what you do notice in the far end of the room is a 12-foot-tall humanoid structure built of solid stone that stands there looming across the way. Giant piston-like stone arms, tree trunk-like legs. You've encountered something like this before–

LAURA: Yes. That looks very similar.

LIAM: With Grog's dead dad.

MATT: Well, no, this was in the druid barrows–

LAURA: A golem that was up in the wall. How about we tie its legs up? Just like we did before. Just in case he comes alive, then he can trip and fall.

MARISHA: Well, I'm assuming it's there in case someone breaks in, like would trigger a trap.

LAURA: I don't care, I start tying a rope around his legs.

LIAM: Yeah, don't we have that neverending rope? Let's do it like 200 times around.

MATT: All right. As you approach the giant stone entity, pulling the rope out, you can see, embedded in the chest, there's a little slit, a very, very tiny slit in its stone chest. You see a faint blue sparking glow, the very same color of the cortex that you had recovered from the druid barrows when you were originally hired by Drez Vina to recover it. As you see this and you approach, it doesn't seem to react.

MARISHA: Right. Wait. And Drez sent us out through Quall.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: The Master's who hired you.

LAURA: Yeah yeah yeah. So we fought this other thing because of Quall.

MARISHA: So why are these things showing up wherever we go for Quall?

LAURA: Well, because that's what he does.

MATT: Well, the first one you encountered was built for the barrow from whoever was in charge–

LAURA: He wanted the orb to bring this thing to life.

MARISHA: Oh, that's right, and now he made– now we see the fruits of our labor. I see.

SAM: We made this thing?

MARISHA: We brought back the crystal so he could make this thing.

SAM: Wow.

TALIESIN: I have no idea what you're talking about.

LAURA: If I take a step forward, does he look like it has any kind of reaction?

MATT: You take a step forward. No reaction.

LAURA: I'm going to keep trying to tie around his legs.

LIAM: I'll help her out, and we'll go back and back and all around.

MATT: Okay. You guys bring the rope around and you tie it pretty taut around the legs, which are pretty close together. They're not like in a wide aggressive stance. It's standing there inert. You wrap the rope around it multiple times, give it the best knots that you have.

LAURA: All right, well. I feel safer.

LIAM: I grab– in my bag I have the charcoal that I once painted half a beard on Grog with, and I use it to draw a little curly mustache on it.

LAURA: Really?

MATT: Okay, so as you climb to the top and you get up there and smear this big ol' Pringles can-style mustache out of charcoal on the front of this stone golem's featureless face. Now it has personality.

LAURA: Can you try to look at its chest? It has a little blue glimmer in it. Climb down and look and see if you can–

LIAM: Yeah, I'm more comfortable drawing mustaches on it than I am dickering with its power source.

LAURA: Just look and see what it is.

LIAM: I look at the crystal, admire it, go dink-dink with a knuckle.

MATT: You glance through this little slit and it's about that wide, like you can barely see the flicker, and the stone is about a good foot and a half, two feet deep before you even see the source of the light. It's a very, very thin slit to it, and from what little bit you can see, you see the gem is embedded in there with multiple metallic and stone things keeping it suspended there.

LIAM: Can I inspect the chest of this creature like it's a trap?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Can I see if the golem's wearing a circlet?

LIAM: 20.

MATT: 20. Ah, well, he was up against its head, there was no circlet on the golem. Looking at it, I mean, there's no trap per se, it's part of the construct of this construct.

LIAM: What's it made of. Is it metal or stone?

MATT: Stone.

LIAM: Is there any way to open it? From the front?

MATT: Not from what you can see, no.

LIAM: Okay.

SAM: Should I go upstairs and get Grog, just in case things get ugly?

LIAM: I add a little pointy beard on the bottom of his chin.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We should keep looking. Anybody else want to look around the room for the circlet?

TALIESIN: I feel like this is not the only room. This is not enough. I feel like there's–

MARISHA: Yeah, I start looking around to see if there's hidden chambers, loose stones in the wall–

SAM: Keyleth, don't you have something that he gave us?

MARISHA: Oh, that's true, the Hunk of Quall. I pull out the Hunk of Quall.

MATT: Okay. Pull it out, hold it aloft, it begins to glow a little bit and react. The golem's chest glows a little bit and reacts. In a far distant corner, underneath the alchemical table, in a pile of some pieces of wood and crumpled stone, there's a slight dull glow.

MARISHA: I walk over and I start brushing it away.

MATT: Okay, you pull it away. You find an almost full loop of metal.

MARISHA: Would it be a dark iron cobalt band?

MATT: Yeah, it is, actually.

TRAVIS: Thank god for that lump of Quall.

SAM: Oi, did she pick it up already?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Didn't kill us?

MATT: No.

SAM: Well, that's good. Did it wake up the beast?

MATT: No, the circlet's glow has faded. You have it in your hand.

LAURA: Well. We have the thing.

TALIESIN: I'm going to quickly take a look at the papers that were buried in–

MATT: A series of notes scribbled on the paper. You can see a number of sketches of the construct of the actual golem itself, pieces of its body and its form, but some of it's been torn and crumpled up, tossed aside, failed attempts.

TALIESIN: Failed attempts? Does he write his name anywhere?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Damn.

MARISHA: I take off my very prized circlet that I love oh so much.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Why'd you make that face?

MATT: No, nothing. What're you doing?

MARISHA: And I put the serpent circlet on.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I concentrate to see what it feels like.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I hand my circlet to– Don't break it!

SAM: Of course I'm not going to break it!

MARISHA: It's a family heirloom.

SAM: I'll have Mort hold it. Mort!

MATT: So the circlet floats in the air, just out of reach. Concentrate, as soon as you place it on your head, it locks to the sides of your head and you feel this cold probing into your mind for a moment.

TALIESIN: It's installing Windows.

MARISHA: Not Windows 10, not Windows 10, god damn it!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm so sorry.

LIAM: Into the corner. Face the corner for a minute.

MATT: It's funny because it's relevant. All right. So, you feel there is a connection trying to be made, but you would need time to attune to this, should you want to take the time to do so. 30 minutes to an hour, depending.

TALIESIN: Let's take all of this out of the house, maybe.

LAURA: Including the golem?

MARISHA: I want to stay here and see. You guys continue looking around. I'm going to meditate for a second.

MATT: Grog, much time goes by. 20, 30 minutes. Not a peep. Silence.

TRAVIS: Can I, since I'm bored– I look up and down the street. Anything suspicious?

MATT: I mean, a few folks wander by, looking nervous around you. Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Hey! Minus, no, plus one. No. (laughs) Eightee– wait.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Zero. 19!

MATT: Okay. You do notice on the far end of the street there does appear to be a pair of individuals that are leaned against a building, looking right at you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's what I was thinking.

MATT: They're about a block and a half down the direction you came.

TRAVIS: I don't look at them. Can I try to attune with my new bloodaxe while I'm waiting?

MATT: You can. Just the bloodaxe?

TRAVIS: Both.

MATT: Okay. So you sit down, your hands still inside the gauntlets, and take a moment to find the connection. You feel this rush of adrenaline hit your body as your hands seem to go numb for a moment, and in a flash your eyes see the chaos of the elements, of the creation of planets slamming into flames and earth, this instant vision of the very force of creation, a time before civilization, and you feel that fiery wrath all of a sudden burn through your fingertips. The vision ends and you look down, and as you curl your fingers, strength pulses through your body that you haven't understood in a while. As you're coming over that moment, the bloodaxe solidifies in your grip, and you can see where this rush could definitely send Kevdak's head to get a little big.

TRAVIS: Sweet.

TALIESIN: The power of Neil deGrasse Tyson is with you.

(laughter)

LIAM: But you know, let's go kill the dragon before we get the rest of these things, because that's a good idea.

TALIESIN: Because that's going to be great. God.

MATT: So, you take the time and eventually the connection finds its way and there's a clarity, and you, as it hits you at the end of this restful period in the basement, you open your eyes and you feel– it's hard to describe, a bit of coldness in your head that's off to the right side of your head. It's this slight tickle of cold.

LIAM: That's no fun.

MARISHA: Slight tickle of cold?

MATT: Right there, almost like inside your skull.

MARISHA: I concentrate on it.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I see if I can manifest the cold?

MATT: Okay. You look down at your hands and try to manifest the cold. Nothing happens.

MARISHA: I focus on the golem.

MATT: You turn to the golem, and as you turn, the cold shifts to the front, in the direction of the golem.

LAURA: Oh! Yeah yeah yeah.

MARISHA: I look at the golem, and I say, step forward.

MATT: Suddenly, the eyes, which were dark, flare with bright blue light, matching his chest–

LAURA: Oh shit, oh wait, his legs are tied up–

MATT: –and as he does, fwoomp, boom! Face-down onto the ground, the rope coming taut, it slams into the floor. You hear this loud impact beneath the ground.

SAM: We're okay, we're okay.

LIAM: I swivel out a dagger and cut right below the knot.

LAURA: He looked like a moron. That was amazing.

MARISHA: And I go, sorry! Sorry!

MATT: No response. It's still face-down on the ground.

LAURA: I'm on the ground laughing.

MARISHA: And I go, rise.

LIAM: Wait wait, one second, one second! We tied it around a lot of times. Hold on!

MATT: As you're trying to cut the rope free, it starts standing up. You finally pull away as its foot backs up and almost crushes you. As it rights itself and stands before you.

LIAM: Look at that mustache.

MATT: It has a majestic, black mustache across its face, its glowing arcane-driven eye sockets and its pulsing blue energy source in its chest, stands looking down at you intently.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go diving to see if there's an instruction manual somewhere in this room. I'm on my hands and knees going through the papers.

MARISHA: I look at the rest of them and I go, holy shit.

ASHLEY: Make him wave!

MARISHA: And I say, your manners. Wave to Pike.

ASHLEY: Keyleth, that's awesome!

MARISHA: And then I say, and a curtsey for Vex.

SAM: Oh, come on, don't demean him.

MARISHA: This is the coolest!

LIAM: Can it do a double-bird?

MARISHA: And I say, what do we say to those who we have just vanquished?

MATT: Turns to Vax. Big ol' stony middle fingers about that wide around.

MARISHA: And I look at him and I say, never forget that.

SAM: He doesn't have a mind.

MARISHA: He has my mind.

LAURA: 21. What I rolled.

MATT: As you guys are scanning around the floor, no sign of any sort of instruction manual, the way that things have been pulled out of here, and the way the circlet was found, you get the feeling as you look about this place that in the escape, Quall was grabbing and Drez Vina were grabbing everything they could, and didn't realize until they had left that the circlet had fallen from their grasp and been left behind. Anything else they probably have that is pertaining to this experiment.

SAM: Well, we have a killing machine now.

LAURA: How do we get him out?

MARISHA: That's what I was just thinking.

SAM: Can only creatures go in your locket thing?

LAURA: I don't know.

SAM: Well, probably only creatures.

TALIESIN: There's only one way to find out.

LAURA: Okay, yeah, I pop Trinket out. It says a creature no more than large in size.

MATT: He's a construct.

LAURA: So no?

MATT: Well, I mean, you'd have to try to find out.

LAURA: I walk up. He's not going to hit me, is he, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I'll tell him not to. I tell him, hey! (whispers) What should I? Should I say his name? Does he have a name?

LAURA: Spike!

MARISHA: I like it. Spike! Is he spikey at all? He's bludgeony.

LAURA: I don't know, I just liked the name.

MARISHA: Okay, I ask him, are you called something?

SAM: He doesn't have a mind.

LAURA: Can he talk?

MATT: There's no response.

SAM: Fassbender.

MARISHA: (laughs) Fassbender? No.

LAURA: Why?

SAM: Too hunky?

LAURA: Can he put his finger down, and I hold the locket up. Hey, Fassbender.

MARISHA: Enter the locket, Fassbender.

MATT: Puts the finger out. Touches the locket.

SAM: Ahh, dammit.

LAURA: Nope. No luck.

MARISHA: Good work, Fassbender. I guess we walk him out of here.

TALIESIN: Or cast a spell.

SAM: Oh, if only I had any.

TALIESIN: If only he had any spells.

MARISHA: What kind of a spell?

TRAVIS: What are you guys doing down there that is so loud?

SAM: Sorry, we met somebody who's even stronger and awesomer than you. But we still love you and we'll bring him out to meet you soon.

TALIESIN: Keyleth has a pet giant robot. I don't know what to make of this.

LIAM: A what?

TALIESIN: It's a thing I've been working on, but apparently someone else has done it first, so never mind.

MARISHA: It's a thing you've been working on?

TALIESIN: Never mind! I'm not working on it anymore!

(laughter)

SAM: You can do a pocket fisherman instead.

TALIESIN: It's passé and stupid. I don't want to hear about it.

MATT: So what's the plan?

MARISHA: I walk him out.

SAM: Wait! Oh no, he's not a creature. I can't make him invisible.

MATT: I mean, he is a creature. Just the particular enchantment based on this, you get the sense that as part of the realm of the Raven Queen is the living and the dead, and this is not necessarily a living creature, it's a construct and the magic does not have an effect on it.

SAM: Oh. Any magic.

MATT: That magic.

SAM: I could try to make him invisible.

LAURA: Oh, that's good!

SAM: It says creature.

MARISHA: Scanlan, do you have a circlet right now? You had the Ioun stones. Do you have anything on your head?

SAM: I am fully attuned.

MATT: Yeah, this requires attunement to wear.

LIAM: Keyleth, is this something you're going to want to do in the long term?

MARISHA: Well, my circlet, I'm a bit attached to it and it's very nice and has a lot of benefits to it.

LIAM: So if we're going to go to the trouble of taking this thing out of here, one of us has to use it. What about your Pom-pom, or– what did you call him?

ASHLEY: Pop-Pop? Pop-Pop could do it, but I don't know if he would be very–

MARISHA: I can wield. I can use him. Honestly, Fassbender might be something that we use sometimes and not all the time anyway. Maybe?

TALIESIN: Could we get him into the Bag of Holding?

LIAM: I doubt it.

MATT: Has to fit through the opening.

TALIESIN: Yeah. We don't have a big enough Bag of Holding.

LIAM: Ooh, I have an invention idea. Could you build a little gnome chair for either Scanlan or Pike or Wilhand on the back of it?

LAURA: But I think he moves rather slow.

TALIESIN: Yes, it would be so Mad Max. It would be beyond Thunderdome.

LIAM: I don't get that reference, but I think you feel me.

LAURA: How fast can he run?

MARISHA: Well, let's try it, I guess.

TALIESIN: Perhaps let's try this somewhere that is not a basement filled with chemicals.

SAM: We can try this in the mansion. If we can get him through the door.

MARISHA: Let's make him invisible and get him to the mansion.

SAM: I'll try to turn him invisible. I don't think it'll work, though, but–

MATT: You cast the spell for a second, using your bardic flair you wink and reach out and touch the golem, and the golem's form vanishes.

SAM: Hey, that's great, all right, let's get outta here then.

MATT: You tell it to follow?

MARISHA: Let's see how this works. Follow.

MATT: (stomping)

LAURA: Well, he's rather loud.

MATT: As you guys come to the doorway and begin stepping through, you watch as the doorframe goes (breaking metal), and it's bent outward like something bursting out of a tuna can.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Shit. Hey, Vex? Do you have a Pass Without a Trace handy?

LAURA: Let me see how many spells I have left. I think I do. Yeah, I can do Pass Without a Trace, I have a couple left.

ASHLEY: I couldn't possibly use my Glove of Storing, could I? To hold his hand?

MATT: You can try. You know from your experience that the Glove of Storing is usually for handheld objects.

ASHLEY: All right.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, including the golem.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I'm going to tell the golem to walk quietly and stealth. Or attempt to, as best as he can.

MATT: (stomping) You guys make your way up the stairs. As you make it up towards the top of the stair landing, you hear the crashing of wood behind you as the golem begins making its way up the staircase, destroying it in the process.

MARISHA: (stammering) What? Why is it? No!

SAM: He's wider than the stairs.

MARISHA: Why is it going up the staircase?

SAM: Because we're going up the staircase!

MARISHA: Oh, we're going, oh. I thought we were outside the front door.

MATT: No, this is all down in the basement. You guys make your way up, as it tears through the stairs. There is a stonework incline the stairs are built on, so it just destroys the wood, but it still manages to make its way up into the house itself, breaking through the banister. You don't even see it, you just see parts of the house (sounds of destruction). It steps forward into the center of the room on one of the plates that you had marked. The thing goes (impact). And stops in the middle of the air, before a couple smoke sparks go (sparks).

LAURA: This thing is awesome.

MATT: Another one. (impacts)

LIAM: I feel like Quall didn't really think this through.

SAM: Are you still unclear about whether we should kill this dragon or not? We have a killing machine now!

LIAM: Does it fly?

SAM: It doesn't matter. He can catch it with his hand!

LAURA: That's true. He actually might be able to hold onto it. At least for a little bit.

MATT: The golem's about 12 feet tall, ten to 12. The dragon's like 30 to 40.

SAM: Yeah, yeah!

LAURA: So the dragon could probably like fly away with it.

TALIESIN: The dragon would find him a very uncomfortable horse pill to swallow.

SAM: However, him plus a bunch of other people could probably hold the dragon.

MARISHA: Let's get back to the mansion.

LAURA: Wait, can he get through the mansion door?

TALIESIN: We will tell him delicately to kneel and crawl.

MARISHA: I mean, it's a magic door. Scanlan, can you just make the door a little bigger to fit him?

SAM: Why don't we have him smash through it? Who cares? We don't live here.

LIAM: We're talking about your mansion door.

MATT: You guys all look at Grog across the street, sitting, clutching the bloodaxe, almost in a lotus position, looking at it.

LIAM: Hey buddy, whatcha doing over there?

MATT: You guys glance up and see Grog smiling, as suddenly behind them, (crashing), the doorway blows out and wood gets thrown out in the middle of the roadway, splintered ruin. There's a giant dome shape of the front of the house where brick and wood has been blown out.

TRAVIS: You guys, the door is exploding! Move! This way! I race across the street to them with the bloodaxe in my hands.

MATT: Okay, you get halfway across, pass them before whack! Something hits you really hard in the face, and you can already feel the blood running in the back of your sinuses.

MARISHA: And I say, Grog, meet Fassbender. Fassbender, Grog.

TRAVIS: I don't understand what you're telling me right now.

MARISHA: He's invisible, but he's a giant stone golem!

TRAVIS: Can I reach out with my hand and try and touch whatever it was that smashed me in the face?

MATT: You reach out and there's a very solid surface in front of you.

MARISHA: And I say, Fassbender, shake Grog's hand. Remember, manners!

MATT: You reach up, as you're feeling out, all of a sudden, a giant form grasps you from behind and shakes your hand. Roll a strength check.

MARISHA: Ooh.

SAM: Your arm gets torn off.

LAURA: Oh god.

LIAM: Also, I lost a hitpoint when he flicked me in the nuts. Nothing? Nothing.

TRAVIS: A new strength check, right? 19.

MATT: 19. As this invisible hand meets, the strength is overwhelming, and then as you focus, you take over the handshake and force it to move your way.

SAM: Ooh, you're stronger than the thing!

MATT: You are stronger than it.

TRAVIS: What the fuck is grabbing my hand?

MARISHA: Fassbender. Scanlan named him.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you keep saying that word. I don't know what it means.

LAURA: We'll show you what he looks like in the mansion. I see you're wearing the gauntlets, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I've been wearing them.

ASHLEY: You've attuned to them.

TRAVIS: I did.

MARISHA: You have a nice glow about you.

SAM: You don't have hair up there.

MATT: As you guys make your way back towards the classic Trickfoot estate with the somewhat muted (stomping) behind you. The sun is just now starting to hit the sunset period of the day. The sky's going from a blue to a lighter white to an orange color, dusk is upon you shortly. And with that, we're going to take a bathroom break.

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: Bathroom break.

MATT: We'll be back here shortly, guys, once again I want to say give some love to our Loot Crate sponsors if you can, at the very least go check it out and see what they got, go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole. Even if you're not interested in subscribing right now, go click on the link and let them know that Critters have some eyes and want to show them some love.

MARISHA: That Critters have power.

MATT: But yeah, guys, we'll see you back here in a few minutes.

ALL: Woo!
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So! Back from break, Vox Machina made their way back to Wilhand's estate, the Trickfoots. For the sake of brevity, you did manage to get the Fassbender golem in through the ten-foot-tall door, five-foot-wide that leads into it. So it was able to barely squeeze in if you wanted to leave it there for the time being.

SAM: Absolutely.

MATT: Okay. There it fits into it.

MARISHA: I want to try some stuff.

MATT: What do you want to try?

MARISHA: Hang on, I'm tweeting out a link for Loot Crate.

TRAVIS: I would like to go down to the training area where I normally sleep. Pike! Would you come with me?

ASHLEY: Yup. I want to train, too. Sit-ups.

MARISHA: How big is the training area, can we all be in the training area practicing our skills?

MATT: Yeah, I mean, it's as big as he wants it to be.

MARISHA: Yeah? Let's do that. Let's go practice. Let's have a group training session, you guys!

ASHLEY: Are we learning skills? Group workout?

SAM: Wait, wait, before we go.

LAURA: What?

SAM: I want to go find my daughter. I've got to leave. Sorry. Bye. Bye!

MARISHA: You're just leaving?

SAM: Yeah, I got to go. Sorry.

MARISHA: Just like that? We got to talk.

LAURA: Do you want help?

SAM: Yeah. I do. I'd like Vax to come.

LIAM: Sure, buddy, sure. Sure, yes, yeah. I'll see you guys later.

TRAVIS: We'll wait for you here.

SAM: Talk, you can start the talk without me, it'll be fast.

TRAVIS: Okay, you'll be right back.

LIAM: I'd like to throw in and say that I don't want to fight the dragon tomorrow, all right, let's go.

SAM: I do want to, and bye.

TRAVIS: Copy that.

MARISHA: We'll train while you guys go!

MATT: So where are you heading?

LIAM: Wait, wait. I run back to the door really quick. Kiki, c'mere c'mere c'mere.

MARISHA: What what what?

LIAM: Can you do that mend-y thing still? This is her, Pom-pom? Pop-Pop, I dunno. Glue the head back on.

MARISHA: Pop-Pop's? Okay okay okay.

LIAM: Yeah, glue the head back on. And then I chase after Scanlan.

MARISHA: I do the mending on the Sarenrae statue.

MATT: And in doing so, you reaffirm the single-piece form that was the small shrine setup for the Sarenrae shrine in the home.

MARISHA: And I want to try a few tricks with the golem, but throwing that out there. Go ahead.

MATT: We'll get to that in a moment. Where are you going?

SAM: I'm going to where I dropped her off at the sewers. And I'm hoping that he can track or something?

LAURA: Probably should've brought a ranger with you, I'm really good at tracking.

SAM: Fuck! I don't know what you people can do!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Outstanding!

MATT: So, now as the sun is disappearing right behind the mountains and nighttime is coming, you lead Vax southward through Westruun, dodging around a few patrolling goliath Herd members, and eventually find your way to the alley where the entrance to the sewer, the protruding entrance existed where you left Dr. Dranzel and Kaylie and a number of survivors that were in the ruined Temple of Arathis.

SAM: Okay, Vax. I know that you are an expert tracker. Right?

LIAM: I'm pretty good, I've watched my sister do it.

SAM: Wait, you're not the one?

LIAM: You know that my name is Vax, right?

SAM: Yeah, I know, aren't you the tracker guy?

LIAM: Sort of?

SAM: I don't know, don't you move in the night and do things?

LIAM: I do have really good eyes, do you want me to have a look?

SAM: Can we go in the sewer and see if we can figure out where they went?

LIAM: Let's have a look.

SAM: They went down here and they went towards the city wall, that's all I know.

LIAM: Let's go.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: All right. Dranzel closed it behind him, you go ahead and grab it. Make a strength check.

SAM: Well, I can't lift anything.

LIAM: Could we do it together, could I help him, give him advantage?

SAM: Whoop! Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: We'll say between the two of you pulling, Scanlan most of the weight, you manage to

(strained sounds).

SAM: C'mon, pull your weight, man!

MATT: Pull the grate, it scrapes, and you manage to haul it off to the side. It's still a difficult process but you do manage enough strength in the two of you to pull it off.

LIAM: Your forearms are like Popeye, motherfucker.

SAM: Yes they are. Years of use.

MATT: The stench of the sewer immediately hits your nose, there is a metal ladder that leads down into the subterranean area.

SAM: All right. Where do we go?

LIAM: I– well, let's see if she left any– my sister looks for tracks. You really should've brought my sister. I'm going to check for tracks.

MATT: Okay, make a survival check.

LIAM: Survival check, okay, well.

MATT: Oh wait no, is this for checking for traps or tracking?

LIAM: Tracks. Footprints.

LAURA: Is that what you said?

LIAM: I said tracks, I'm not looking for traps, we're in the sewer. Tracks.

MATT: Yes. Survival.

SAM: D'you need an article of her clothing for a scent?

LIAM: 17. I'm concentrating on the mud.

MATT: As you're down inside the sewer, there is a recess in the center of the floor where most of the various sludge runs through. There are bits of runoff from when the rain does pour through, and it rains fairly often here in this part of Tal'Dorei, where bits of mud and compost that get caught on the sides are. You do manage to find a few spots that appear like footsteps, you don't know who from, it appears some sort of humanoid's footsteps, over an area that heads southward.

LIAM: I hold my foot over one, is it smaller than mine or is it about the same size?

MATT: The one you see is about the same size.

SAM: There were some humanoids, humans with us. We were traveling with a bunch of people.

LIAM: Yeah? Okay. Well, I mean, they would've washed away if they were old, so probably pretty new. Let's follow them.

SAM: You are the expert.

LIAM: I clearly am.

(laughter)

LIAM: Let's go.

SAM: Shit.

LIAM: Yeah, I'll lead the way.

MATT: Okay. You continue, both of you guys make stealth checks.

LIAM: Yeah, okay.

SAM: Seven. I'm just excited!

TRAVIS: Going to see my daughter!

LIAM: 33.

MATT: Okay. You guys continue finding your way, weaving through the southern area, following the tracks they vanish and you'll see a couple footprints here, and then you guys will lose the trail. The scent is terrifying and getting worse the further south you progress. You do head into one central chamber and both of you guys make perception checks.

SAM: Huh! 19!

LIAM: 30.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: You both stop in as you immediately see in the center of this room a large bulbous form that is massed in the center. You both stop.

LIAM: Qu-iet. Quiet.

SAM: I'm always quiet!

MATT: It is not moving.

SAM: Oh. Okay.

LAURA: Oh my god, did you send your daughter down to get attacked by a giant bulbous shit?

SAM: Can we go around it?

MARISHA: It's true, there were like a bunch of slimes and stuff down there.

LIAM: So we're in a larger chamber and it's in the middle?

MATT: Yeah, it's like a four-way, four different platforms or passages merge in the center here, where one of the drains leads down into–

LIAM: And are there any of the footprints left anywhere?

MATT: I mean, you do see bits of sludge around, and there are a number of footprints that are all scattered around, some smeared, some skidding.

LIAM: I reach down and I scoop Scanlan up in football pose again. Which way do you want to go? I can't tell which way. Your daughter. Reach deep, man.

SAM: Can I sense which direction the wall of city is, like do I have any sort of–

MATT: Make a survival check.

SAM: Survival, I've never done this before! 13.

MATT: 13. Keeping track of where you were and the direction, you gather it's probably that way.

SAM: Oh! I– let's go that way!

LIAM: Shh!

SAM: (whispering) Sorry, let's go that way.

LIAM: Don't. Move.

SAM: All right.

MATT: As you carefully move past, you look and you see– you did encounter one of these entities before, when you were tracking down the rakshasa. It's a terrible swollen creature with tendrils, a mouth, it feeds on refuse and rot. This was a rather swollen and dangerous-looking one. However, as you pass by and look, you see a series of wounds across its body and its lifeblood dripping out. This one has been slain.

LIAM: I'm going to set you down, all right? I think your daughter done killed a– oogedyboogedy.

SAM: What? How do you know that?

LIAM: Sit down. It's dead.

SAM: Oh. Oh, good!

MATT: Survival check again. You followed the tracks.

TRAVIS: Are there any track marks?

LIAM: 12. I already asked that.

MATT: The tracks vanish, you're not sure how to follow a direction.

LIAM: Is there any blood or ooze walking away, I mean dripping away from there?

MATT: I mean, it all congeals in this general area, most of the central room, the middle area is very clustered with slime and goop. There's no natural flow and there hasn't been a very recent rainfall so there isn't a fresh flow of water through here either.

LIAM: And where were they going, where did you tell them to go?

SAM: Out of town, get out of town.

LIAM: Do I know where that is, which direction that is down here?

MATT: I mean, based on where you're going, you guys can follow that path. And we'll say for the sake of brevity you eventually find your way to a portion of the sewer, dodging a few shady-looking areas to where a final grate leads out into the night. Because it is night at this point in time. It's a large ten-foot-tall circular grate. If you look, the bars are actually bent open and it leads outward, the liquid from the sewage now spills out into this small ravine in the very southern portion of Westruun. And leads out into–

LIAM: Sort of like this? Or is it?

MATT: No, it's up like this, it's vertical.

LIAM: Vertical. And what do we see past the bars?

MATT: You see the open plains south of Westruun.

SAM: No sign of tracks, anyone huddled for safety?

MATT: I mean, looking around you can see a few footprints, scattered footprints, you can make a survival check.

SAM: Pff. Ten.

LIAM: 12.

MATT: Ten? Nothing that specifically catches your attention.

LIAM: I think she got outta here, pal.

SAM: Balls.

LIAM: But she's not here.

SAM: That's true.

LIAM: She's better off.

SAM: All right. All right. Sorry, wild goose chase.

LIAM: No, no, don't worry about it. You want to talk about it?

SAM: No, no. I just don't know when I'll see her again, so. I'll find her again. That's all. It'll be good.

LIAM: I believe that, too.

SAM: Yeah. Oh, and hey. Thank you. Back at the sphinx. Your sister was unconscious, and you dove in to save me. That was very nice.

LIAM: I knew she would be taken care of, and I wasn't sure about you.

SAM: Because you love me?

LIAM: You're very entertaining and I would be sad to see you go.

SAM: Well, I owe you one. Forever. And I hate to say it, but I feel terrible about it, but I think I might've killed a couple of civilians because I feel like I owe you some, some help.

LIAM: What do you mean?

SAM: Well, I was in the big fight back there, I could've hurt you or the civilians, but I decided to hurt the civilians, because I've got to protect you, because you protected me.

LIAM: Well– there's no right or wrong, but next time, I'll be all right. You help people more in need than me, and I'll be all right.

SAM: All right. Next time.

LIAM: I don't know any of your fancy, you know, fluh-duh-duh. But–

SAM: Well, I'm no ranger like you.

(laughter)

LIAM: There is no ranger like me. This is stupid, we should go back.

SAM: Through the sewers again?

LIAM: Yeah. I mean, we don't have Big Man with us and I don't want to run into any of his third cousins or whatever, so yeah.

SAM: All right. I'll lead the way.

LIAM: Might as well.

MATT: Eventually you guys make your way back.

TALIESIN: Not going to make them roll survival to get back?

LAURA: You guys are lost forever in the sewers.

MATT: Little roundabout, but they get there eventually, they return to the mansion–

MARISHA: Status gained: fall into a pile of shit. Never to get out.

MATT: Smelling awful. All right, so. You wanted to go ahead and do some exercises with Fassbender.

MARISHA: I do want to do some exercises with Fassbender.

LAURA: (laughs) Who doesn't?

MARISHA: Who doesn't want to do exercises with Fassbender? Abs of stone, that Fassbender.

LIAM: P90X with Fassbender?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Okay, he's not invisible anymore, right? You dropped that, I'm assuming he dropped– sure.

MATT: That's faded by now, yeah.

TRAVIS: Ohh. I get it. Makes so much sense. Shit. He is huge. Fuck. Now I get it, all right, he's with us. Got it.

MARISHA: He is with us, yeah.

TRAVIS: Understand.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah, oh, sorry. Grog, Fassbender. Fassbender, Grog.

TRAVIS: His name is Fassbender?

ASHLEY: I call him Fluffy.

TRAVIS: Fluffy it is!

MARISHA: I'm terrible at naming things, I just go with whatever the first person shouts out.

LAURA: That's a lie because I said Spike.

MARISHA: Oh, you did say Spike. We overruled it with Fassbender.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: She goes with the second thing that everybody shouts out.

MATT: Too late now. It's in stone.

TALIESIN: Literally.

LIAM: It's like an improv show. “Salty McFucknuts!”

(laughter)

MARISHA: Spike, ehhh, not that one.

MATT: It basically is, yeah.

MARISHA: Okay, so first I say, Fassbender, run! And I want to see how fast he can go.

MATT: And he runs about the same speed you do, I mean as far as its bigger steps, but it gets about the same distance.

MARISHA: Okay, and I say, Fassbender, punch Grog! He's used to this, Grog's fine with it.

MATT: Do you do anything?

TRAVIS: No, yeah, I totally take it.

MARISHA: This is how we train with Grog. It's fine.

LAURA: You're healed, you're healed up?

TRAVIS: Enough.

MATT: The golem pulls back, whoosh, swings at you with a giant fist. That is a 19.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that– wait. Well, I took off– yeah, I did take off my Bracers of Defense, so that hits.

MATT: All right. Whack. Right square to the side of the face and jaw, you take, from the impact of its giant battering-ram-like arm, 24 points of bludgeoning damage.

ALL: Oh!

MATT: You're not raging, so it's not halved.

TRAVIS: Okay. Tit for tat, bitch. And I swing back with the Titanstone Knuckles and punch Fassbender in the face.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.

LAURA: Do we know if we can heal him once we damage him?

MARISHA: We'll find out.

TRAVIS: 28.

MATT: That hits. So you do one plus the plus seven strength damage to it. So eight points of–

TRAVIS: Of the four or the six, because it's my fist?

MATT: Huh? Well, it's not a save, your fists for this because you're not a tavern brawler and we're saying because you're not like on even ground with the other guy. You're doing boom, one point of damage from the punch plus seven for the strength. So eight points of damage from the crack as the fist hits. It does cause like a crack where the impact hits, a little bit.

MARISHA: I say, okay, all right, enough hitting each other, enough of that.

TRAVIS: Well, hold on, we were just getting warmed up, I mean, this is where the game starts, you know, it's like, P-I-N-G and then you really start playing.

LAURA: Ping? You can–

TRAVIS: It's a song.

MARISHA: There's some other questions first, other questions first. I cast Call Lightning.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to get in the way of this, just for fun.

SAM: Indoors, by the way.

MARISHA: And I just, it's fine, I bring down a bolt of lightning on a dummy, and then see if I can also command Fassbender to punch a dummy.

MATT: Okay. Bolt of lightning hits a dummy, the dummy is shattered. As you command Fassbender, Fassbender leaps forward at another dummy, whoosh, giant haymaker and causes the dummy to explode into a bunch of fluff and cloth.

MARISHA: So would we say that would be like a bonus action, what I just did?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: No? It was an action for each?

MATT: I mean, you have to focus on it, yeah. I mean, you can give it– you have an action to give it a command, and it'll continue the command as it goes.

TALIESIN: So once it's set in that motion, it'll continue to kill that thing.

MARISHA: Okay. So then theoretically I can have a concentration spell up and be like, kill that thing, and they won't overlap?

MATT: Hmm, let's see.

LIAM: Y'know, while he looks that up, let me point out that when I punched Percy in the face, there were zero points of hitpoint damage.

(laughter)

SAM: Hey now. Rangers aren't very strong.

LIAM: Yes, yes, I did punch him.

TALIESIN: I want to check by the way, Liam, are you imagining the eighties-era X-Men danger room right now too, with like the hoops and the bars.

ALL: Ohh!

LIAM: Yeah, metal rods, and Nightcrawler going–

MATT: It takes an action to focus and give it a new command.

MARISHA: A new command.

MATT: Yes. Once it is commanded, it will continue to do it until told otherwise or it completes whatever task it was given.

MARISHA: It's not a concentration to keep up that command. So, like– keep fighting the dragon until it hits the ground would theoretically be one command that would keep going?

MATT: Based on your experience with it so far, theoretically it should work.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: (robotic voice) Whatever Keyleth wants, Keyleth gets.

MARISHA: Thank you, Speak and Spell. We found out if it can talk?

TALIESIN: Ask a question.

MARISHA: Fassbender.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Fassbender. How many years old are you? Hold up– hold on, how old are you?

MATT: No response.

TALIESIN: All right, this is good, we're finding out its intelligence level.

MARISHA: Can you gesture to me with your fingers and tell me how many years old you are? (whispers) I don't think he's listening.

TALIESIN: It may not be smart enough to know that.

MARISHA: He's distracted.

MATT: Yeah, there, it's– no response.

TALIESIN: So it doesn't know anything, that's good. Let's find out if it can, does it have any magical properties beyond punching, can it, tell it to use magic.

MARISHA: Okay. Hey, Fassbender. Cast a spell on Percy.

(laughter)

SAM: Death's eye.

TALIESIN: And then I die.

LIAM: Disintegrate beam, straight on.

TALIESIN: And then you dye a blue streak in your hair and everything goes fine.

MATT: It turns over, brings its hands up like this– make a wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Oh my god.

MARISHA: Well look, I wanted a live test subject.

TALIESIN: No, no, I'm with you, I'm with you.

TRAVIS: That's my designation.

TALIESIN: Natural. One.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: (laughs) You feel like–

MARISHA: Hey! To Percy!

TALIESIN: No no no, it's happening.

MATT: You've been near explosions before, not like super close but big enough where you feel like the concussive wave from a distance, not enough to harm you, but enough to like, send you off your balance for a moment. You feel that impact, and as you fall onto your back foot, time around you seems to be moving faster that you'd expect, and (slow-mo voice) you find your motion sluggish.

SAM: Oh. That's Slow.

MATT: (slow-mo voice) And you really have a hard time really moving–

MARISHA: That's awesome!

TALIESIN: (slow-mo voice) This– put–

ASHLEY: It's– you're in slow-mo!

TALIESIN: (slow-mo voice) –the candle–

MARISHA: Percy, you're in slow-mo! You're slow-mo, Percy!

TALIESIN: (slow-mo voice) –back.

MARISHA: It's amazing!

LAURA: How do we fix him?

MARISHA: It'll wear off.

MATT: Make another wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: How will he do zingers now?

TALIESIN: Wisdom, where are we– 16.

LIAM: (slow-mo voice) We're slow.

MATT: (slow-mo voice) Not really changing.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: All right, Fassbender, can you drop this?

LIAM: Bet he can't.

TALIESIN: You asked him a question as opposed to telling him to do it.

MARISHA: Fassbender, drop the spell.

MATT: (slow-mo voice) No apparent change in Percy. (normal voice) He stands there.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: It'll wear off. Okay. Fassbender, do you know any other spells, and if so, cast them at the dummy this time.

MATT: Looks at the dummy, looks back at you.

MARISHA: I go up to Fassbender and I cast Stone Shape on his chest and see if I can repair that crack. Actually, before I do that, can I do a level one Cure Wounds to see if I can heal him first? Okay.

MATT: Go ahead and roll for that.

MARISHA: Do I roll a d20 for it?

SAM: He's talking to a whale right now somewhere.

MARISHA: Eight points.

TALIESIN: (slow-mo) hate– you–

(laughter)

LIAM: Tell us all about the nature of politics.

LAURA: Just think, the fun thing is, I think you're aging much slower than the rest of us.

MATT: Okay. This is, this, hmm.

TALIESIN: (laughs) This is the most torturous thing ever.

MATT: So you go ahead and reach out and touch it, and the healing magic seeps up into the crack that Grog left behind, and the crack fuses shut.

LAURA: That's cool, that's cool.

MATT: For how much was the total?

MARISHA: Eight points.

MATT: Yeah, fuses shut entirely, it's like there was no crack.

MARISHA: So he gets healed by a heal–

MATT: About a minute passes, and then you come back to your normal pace.

TALIESIN: No, it's– no, it's good.

MARISHA: How was that, how did that feel? Was it frustrating?

TALIESIN: Yes!

MARISHA: Good, good.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Can it–

MARISHA: Thank you, that's all I need.

TALIESIN: Can it fly?

MARISHA: Ooh. Fassbender, can you– I don't think he can fly.

TALIESIN: Just try it.

MARISHA: Fassbender, can you fly?

LIAM: Tell it.

MARISHA: Fly, Fassbender, fly.

TALIESIN: How high did it jump?

MARISHA: How high is it jumping?

MATT: It's getting six feet off the ground vertically. And then landing with a heavy impact each time, causing these divots to continuously push into the ground.

LAURA: Ooh, I wonder if it can like earthquake.

MARISHA: Okay, I Stone Shape, I take a chunk of the wall and I Stone Shape a boulder. And I hand it to him. And I say, throw it at that target.

MATT: Tiny little boulder.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: It hits the target, the stone shatters across it.

MARISHA: So his aim's pretty good.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: Nice.

MARISHA: And then I go, Fassbender, high-five.

Yeah.

MATT: You take two points of bludgeoning damage.

MARISHA: Ahh.

MATT: Unable to control its force.

MARISHA: Mm. Yeah. You're my buddy, Fassbender.

TALIESIN: Out of idle curiosity, two last important things that I would recommend.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Perhaps, Fassbender, go into recharge mode? Or sleep mode? Perhaps? So that maybe it can regain some of its magic ability, which it might burn through? And two, and I'm surprised that I'm the one to mention this, but we should double-check to make sure that that thing isn't doing anything strange to your head.

MATT: For the record, while this has happened, Mort, who's been following you guys around because it's not concentration, the circlet that he was carrying, the one that you previously had, hit the ground. And is lying there on the ground.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pick that up.

MARISHA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: All right. It's very nice.

MARISHA: Thank you. It's very old. Okay, Fassbender. Rest.

MATT: The eyes go to a very, very dull glow, its form tends to slightly hunch forward in the position it was at rest when you found it in the basement, seems to have gone into some sort of a rest state.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Take that off for a bit? Maybe?

MARISHA: But I like it–

LAURA: Try taking it off, Kiki.

MARISHA: It's my friend.

TALIESIN: It'll be your friend in the morning.

MARISHA: Okay. I take it off.

MATT: As you reach up, you go to pull it off your head– and it slides off without a problem.

(shouting)

LAURA: I am going to throw something at you!

TRAVIS: That's like the fifth time today and it's so good!

ASHLEY: You sneaky-sneaky.

TRAVIS: No, like a good horror movie. Fakeouts.

ASHLEY: As you take it off your head–

SAM: –your eyes start to bleed.

MARISHA: I take it off.

TALIESIN: Seems all right.

MARISHA: Do I look funny?

TALIESIN: More than normal? Oh, no, you don't look different.

MARISHA: You're a dick.

TALIESIN: I know. Well, you made a robot cast a spell on me. An automaton, I suppose.

MARISHA: Mm, you earned it.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

MATT: So, while this is happening– you guys.

TRAVIS: Can I turn to Pike and say like, look at what I got!

ASHLEY: These are cool!

TRAVIS: Yeah, right? I don't even feel it. It's like nothing.

ASHLEY: You don't?

TRAVIS: Nope.

ASHLEY: You don't even feel that?

TRAVIS: No, nothing.

ASHLEY: Wow!

TRAVIS: Well, look. The bloodaxe, right, I've known this weapon for many, many years, and I wanted you to be here when I did this. (whispers) Can you hear me?

ASHLEY: Did it say anything to you?

MATT: No response.

TRAVIS: No. Which is cool, right?

ASHLEY: Okay, this is good, this is good, this is an improvement from your last weapon.

TRAVIS: Yep, better. Can you tell if it's evil?

ASHLEY: Bad? Yeah.

TALIESIN: How awful a person am I?

MARISHA: You're pretty awful, from what I'm slowly beginning to learn about you, Percy.

MATT: What are you doing? There's, the level, what spell do you have prepared that'll help with this, if any? That you have prepared.

ASHLEY: Where'd it go, where'd it go, it was right– Can I–

MATT: There's a level one spell, Detect Good and Evil, if you have that prepared, that would detect for an evil entity.

LAURA: Do you have Identify?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Identify is more of an arcane-based.

TRAVIS: What do you think?

MATT: That would be like Scanlan or any other arcane casters you would know.

ASHLEY: Can I perception check it?

LAURA: Do you have Identify?

SAM: I'm not there.

LAURA: I'm asking you, not you.

ASHLEY: Insight check it, can I–

SAM: You'll have to butter me up first.

MATT: I mean, it's hard to insight check something that's not living from what you can tell. There's no communication, there's nothing, it just looks like an axe.

ASHLEY: I'll learn that spell and I'll check it later.

TRAVIS: Oh, you can't tell anything?

ASHLEY: I can't tell anything right now. It looks pretty normal. And it's a good sign that it's not talking to you.

TRAVIS: Right. So we're already in a better place than we were before.

ASHLEY: Yeah. And they look really cool.

TRAVIS: They do. Hey, wait, keep holding it for a second. Can I walk over to the wall? Can I punch the wall?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: I'd like to punch the wall.

LIAM: It's like our first game ever.

MARISHA: (Grog voice) I'd like to punch the wall.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.

TRAVIS: Wait– 50.

LAURA: Wait, that's damage.

MATT: Wait, no, just damage is doubled.

TRAVIS: Oh, just damage. 25. 25.

MATT: That was pretty funny. All right. So. As you rear back, your fist slams into the stonework here of your magnificent mansion, the stonework shatters, eight, up to 16 points of damage from the sheer punch against the wall, the stone sends a crack through that actually pierces to the top of the rather large 25-foot ceiling here in the training area that has been crafted by Scanlan. Stones tumble and hit the ground, a bunch of it, plaster and pieces fall and hit the area around you, causing a small pile of wreckage. Pretty solid punch.

ASHLEY: Whoa!

TRAVIS: I remember being little and Kevdak went and punched a boulder and it went like (stone shattering) and split in half.

ASHLEY: Whoa, and you just did it with the hands.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're going to be busting balls big time.

ASHLEY: Can I swing the axe?

TRAVIS: Yeah, at me?

ASHLEY: No! At the dummy. I'm going to try it. I'm going to try swinging the axe at the dummy.

MATT: It sticks into it.

TRAVIS: Good swing!

(laughter)

MATT: You're not as strong as him per se, you're–

TRAVIS: Vicious, vicious. Oh wait–

MATT: Your strength is 13, right?

ASHLEY: What's that?

MATT: Your strength is 13, right?

ASHLEY: My strength?

MATT: Strength is 13, right?

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: It's not, because you haven't put the gauntlets on.

ASHLEY: I didn't, I don't think I erased that.

TRAVIS: Well hold on, I had to take the Gauntlets of Ogre Power off, do you want them back? Now, I think you have to give 'em up for the boots, but it's your pick, it's a kite– or you can be a monstah!

ASHLEY: I want to be a monstah!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: All right!

MATT: All righty. So your strength is back up to 19 with the Gauntlets of Ogre Power. Beefy Pike is back.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

TRAVIS: I also have– wait, is Scanlan back? (sniffs) Do I smell poo?

MATT: As this time has passed, you guys do return to the mansion, yeah.

SAM: Ahh. I'll go down and check on things downstairs.

LIAM: Just a minor thing, on the walk back in the sewer I would like to slowly, just in case some of these assholes want to fight a dragon tomorrow, I slowly start attuning to acidic damage instead of fire.

MATT: Not a problem. You are currently resistant to acid damage.

LIAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: Didn't I get these Bracers of Defense from you?

SAM: Maybe? I don't really remember things like that.

TRAVIS: Oh. Do you want 'em back?

SAM: Bracers of Defense, what do they do?

TRAVIS: It gives you a plus two to your AC if you wear no armor and are using no shield.

SAM: I wear armor, so I could trade them for something cool?

TALIESIN: You wear armor?

SAM: I wear Cold Snap Leather Armor.

TRAVIS: Does anybody not wear any armor?

MARISHA: The only one who doesn't wear armor is you.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Cool. Well, they're worth like six thousand gold, so I guess–

LAURA: Well, fucking hand 'em over, we'll sell 'em for stuff.

TRAVIS: I'll hold onto them, thanks.

LAURA: Grog, I don't trust your haggling skills, I promise.

LIAM: If we can ever find a store open in a city that's not destroyed, we can sell this stuff.

MARISHA: Not much of an economy right now.

TRAVIS: For 50! No.

MATT: You'll have to make your way to another city.

LIAM: Back to the Clasp.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: So it's night, it's nighttime.

LAURA: We should probably figure out if we're going to fight a fucking dragon in the morning.

TRAVIS: We owe Zanror a talk one way or the other.

LAURA: Oh, gods. We're going to go talk to him tonight? We need to sleep!

TRAVIS: Yeah, we need to heal up, big time.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm pretty tapped out.

LIAM: Big Man, what are we going to do in the morning when we get up?

SAM: At dawn, we chit-chat!

ASHLEY: At dawn, we plan.

TRAVIS: You guys are the biggest fucking dicks ever. Great conversations have been had at dawn, I'll have you know. We're not the only one. Treaties have been signed, and– stuff.

TALIESIN: I'll also, weren't we at some point supposed to check the library for clues of the location of the next Vestige?

LAURA: What library? Here, the Cobalt Reserve?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Yes, and we still haven't found Reginald's daughter.

TALIESIN: That is a thing.

SAM: We'll send a carefully worded letter. We can't roam the city for days trying– looking for some dead guy's daughter, come on.

TALIESIN: Well, we don't have to, we know where she is. She's in the prison.

LAURA: Oh, she's in prison!

SAM: Well then we should go bust her out!

TALIESIN: We may just be able to get them to release her.

TRAVIS: We might be able to do that.

MARISHA: It sounds like there were a lot of people in prison, last we heard.

LIAM: If we can talk to them, but we have to talk to them.

TALIESIN: Grog has to talk to them.

SAM: Should we sleep first? And go at dawn?

MARISHA: I don't know if this can wait.

SAM: What time is it?

MATT: It's past dusk at this time, the hours you guys were traveling, I'd say it's probably close to 9PM. For you guys to get a full rest, you got to sleep soon if you're trying to get up pre-dawn. It's up to you.

TRAVIS: How long is a long rest?

MATT: A long rest is six to eight hours.

TRAVIS: Six to eight. So on the short end, we could get up at three and walk over.

SAM: Wake his ass up.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Let's go sleep now, wake up, go let the prisoners free, and then talk to Kev– Zanror.

MARISHA: All right, well, when are we going to talk amongst ourselves?

TRAVIS: We should do that now.

LAURA: Short, short talk.

TALIESIN: I don't feel comfortable fighting a dragon on 24 hours' notice after almost getting my arse handed to me.

TRAVIS: All right, that's Percy's vote. Keyleth, what do you say?

MARISHA: Can I pass and wait to hear other people's thoughts?

TRAVIS: Sure, Vax, what do you say?

LIAM: Much to my own chagrin, I'm in perfect agreement with Frederick von Whatsitface de Rolo de Whatsit.

TRAVIS: Vex?

LAURA: I am– I stand by what I said before, I think we should let them go out and fight a dragon, and we try to rescue the city while they are distracted.

TRAVIS: Badass Hand-Smasher the First?

SAM: That's you, Pike.

ASHLEY: That's me. I'm having trouble. What are you thinking?

TRAVIS: I wouldn't care if we left now. I don't think we're ready. I think it would be foolish. I learned a lesson yesterday. And I'm anxious to die, don't get me wrong, but I'd rather win, if we planned a little better, than lose.

LAURA: Are there any big trees in the city?

TALIESIN: That's not a lot of people. We need to move a lot of people. How many people are in theory still left in the city?

MATT: You have no idea.

LAURA: An entire fucking city.

MARISHA: I think a lot.

MATT: I mean, a lot of people have left and gone to Kymal, a lot have left and gone to the Foramere Basin, which you already saw. And a lot of people are still within the city, and currently being lorded over and run–or were– by the Herd, you don't know quite how many still remain. You've seen many jump between homes, and a few that've waited for this whole thing to blow over.

TALIESIN: Based on the size of the city and the number of people I've seen, what would be my extrapolation? I'm a reasonable human being. Triple digits, four digits?

MATT: I mean, you're looking at maybe four digits, low four digits.

TALIESIN: Low four digits, that'll do.

SAM: Listen, we have this Herd. They will be our allies for exactly one day.

TRAVIS: In theory.

SAM: In theory. So if we do not use them to attack dragons, can we at least use them to do something? Because they will no longer ever be our allies again after today. We could use them to go try to kill the dragon on their own, we could use them to try to kill something or someone else for us, we could use them to try to help clear the city, if we convinced them that it was in their best interest to–

TRAVIS: I'll amend my proposition to this. I'm not sure what that word means.

SAM: 'This'?

TRAVIS: Yes. If we go and speak to Zanror, and we can't change his mind about fighting this dragon, which I'm not entirely comfortable asking him to do, we at least get the innocents, prisoners, and hostages out of the city. We pretend that we're going to fight the dragon with him, and when shit goes down, we wait.

MARISHA: That's actually what I was thinking.

TALIESIN: This is not a bad plan.

MARISHA: We have the means to bail us out very quickly if things go wrong.

TRAVIS: And if I may, in case any of your consciences are in conflict, the Herd is full of murderers and pillagers and rapists and child killers. The worst of the lot. And only when I was younger did I not know the difference between right and wrong. Still working on that definition. But I can tell you, this group ain't the best lot in the world, and they mean nothing to me compared to the people in this room.

MARISHA: Conversely, you were a part of that lot once. And you came out of it.

TRAVIS: Once. But are we trying to save a herd? Or are we trying to save a town?

MARISHA: I think we're trying to save the world at this point.

TRAVIS: That's bigger than a town, right?

LIAM: By a bit.

LAURA: A little.

TALIESIN: Today we can save a town.

SAM: You know, we're all gathered here together, so I'd like to take this opportunity with Wilhand's blessing to propose marriage to you, Pike Trickfoot. Will you make me the happiest gnome ever? I'm sorry, I couldn't contain myself any longer.

ASHLEY: That was so sudden!

SAM: I know, I'm sorry, I've been thinking about it all night tonight, I went looking for Kaylie, she wasn't there, and then– I'm sorry, I blurted it out, it's just, we're all together, we're never all together like this, so.

LIAM: Can I roll stealth and hide right now?

(laughter)

MATT: Go ahead.

ASHLEY: Can I roll stealth and hide right now?

MATT: You can try to if you want to.

LIAM: 28, I'm gone.

TALIESIN: Scanlan, at least this could wait until after the danger's over.

SAM: I know, I know, but we may die later tonight when we go see Zanror.

TALIESIN: Only if we follow your example.

MARISHA: That was the most impressive segue I've ever encountered.

TALIESIN: I was trying really hard here.

ASHLEY: That was a segue if I've ever heard one.

SAM: You know what, don't answer now, don't answer now. I know that you want to say yes, but please, don't answer yet. Just think about it and we'll talk about it some other time.

ASHLEY: I will definitely have to think about it. Because that's a lot–

TALIESIN: We can work on some sort of concoction if you need help sleeping after that information, at this point. That would keep me up for hours. That's– yeah.

LIAM: Do we have any oloore root?

(laughter)

MARISHA: You ever want a vision quest, just let me know.

ASHLEY: You know what, I will think on it, and I will give you an answer after some dragons are killed and– let me think on it, Scanlan. Let me think on it.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: (whispers) I think that went well.

TRAVIS: Do you mean, like, permanent marriage?

ASHLEY: I think I was really start– yeah.

SAM: No no no, I'm sorry, that didn't, I didn't do that the way I had planned it in my head, I'm sorry.

ASHLEY: It's okay.

SAM: I was overcome with a lot of stress, you know? We're fighting dragons and bonding with goliaths here and you're in my house, and it's a very very stressful night for me, I'm sorry.

MARISHA: That was the weirdest coping mechanism I've ever heard of.

SAM: Yeah, yeah. I'm sorry.

ASHLEY: It's okay, maybe you just feel that way because we could all die, so.

SAM: For sure.

ASHLEY: You feel like you maybe– I don't know.

SAM: You know what, we'll table it. We'll table it.

ASHLEY: We'll table it.

SAM: We'll table it.

ASHLEY: Okay. Where is Wilhand?

SAM: I think he's in the kitchen.

ASHLEY: He's probably made a delicious meal.

LAURA: We should eat and then sleep.

MATT: You guys make your way to the kitchen?

MARISHA: Well, let's finish this conversation over food.

MATT: There is a– what did you have in mind?

LIAM: I'm going back to my room, I'm not eating. Yeah.

MARISHA: Wait, we need to finish this conversation.

MATT: He's already gone, you don't know where he is. Vax disappeared in the confusion. You head back to the main dining area. There is a full meal prepared of very creative uses of chicken.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: It's all– if he had more stuff, he could really do well.

TALIESIN: I don't– I don't think you're supposed to eat– that's creative.

MARISHA: Every chicken dish ever.

TALIESIN: I'll have the soup.

MATT: Wilhand is slumped in the corner on a stool with a bottle of wine that is mostly empty.

LIAM: (old-man voice) Try the chicken sorbet!

MATT: A bit of drool dribbling down his neck.

TRAVIS: I take the bottle. He pulled it back! I let him have it.

LAURA: I go and whisper to Scanlan, are you all right?

SAM: Yeah, I'm fine. She didn't say no?

LAURA: She didn't. I sort of meant about Kaylie as well, though.

SAM: Oh, yes. I just don't know where she is, so it's a bit stressful. That's all. She's safe though, right? Just say yes.

LAURA: Yes. Of course she is.

SAM: Yeah, I thought so.

TRAVIS: I go and grab a shitload of chicken and start shoving it in my mouth.

MARISHA: Is Wilhand here?

TRAVIS: He's passed out.

MATT: He's passed out in a corner with a bottle of white wine that's half-empty.

ASHLEY: I go get a blanket and cover him.

MARISHA: I walk over and I slide the bottle of ale out of his hand.

MATT: (laughs) Death grip on the bottle.

MARISHA: All right. I leave the bottle of ale and I take the statue of Sarenrae and I put it in his other hand, tuck him up.

MATT: Cuddles it up with the blanket around it, he's like this little bundle of old gnomish sleeping joy right now.

ASHLEY: Oh, buddy.

TRAVIS: Is Vax here?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Shit. I wanted to put like shaving cream in his hand and tickle his nose with a feather.

MARISHA: Although I feel like we still need to finish this conversation. Shouldn't we all be present?

TRAVIS: What's left to finish?

TALIESIN: Other than take a rest.

SAM: We're going to try to convince them to delay. If they won't delay, then we say, all right, let's go fight, and we send them into battle.

LAURA: And then we don't really fight.

MARISHA: Huh?

LAURA: Well, we see how they do, and we try to rescue people.

MARISHA: Maybe it's time to split up. Maybe some of us help fight the dragons while others help evacuate.

LAURA: No. I'm not separating from you when we go fight a giant fucking dragon.

TALIESIN: I may run to try and quietly by myself grab a few things from the library that we may need for the next Vestiges.

MARISHA: You're going tonight?

TALIESIN: Ah. Possibly in the morning.

MARISHA: I'll go with you.

MATT: You do recall based on your previous scrying spell–

MARISHA: It was ruined and most of it had been picked clean.

MATT: –it was ruined, a lot of it picked over, Allura was escaping with a couple of tomes under her arms before escaping via spark.

TALIESIN: Oh, all right then.

MARISHA: I mean, it doesn't mean that there's not something still potentially there, but I'm sure Allura got most of the good stuff. She's not stupid.

TALIESIN: No, that's fair.

MARISHA: We can still check it out.

MATT: So what's the plan?

TRAVIS: We go to sleep–

LIAM: I don't have a plan, but while they're all dicking about, after about an hour of staring at the wall, I start talking to the air, and say: You know, I've never put much stock in faith. And for the life of me, I question so much why my sister took that broom and I can't figure out another reason for her to have done it, other than fate, for I would not be standing here, nor would anyone else in my family. So. You weren't my first choice, but I'm over that. And I'm ready. I will come to you as soon as I am able. I don't know how any of this works. I'm coming. Whatever we need to do. I don't know what I believe, but I made a promise and I'm sticking to it and I'm coming to you. So just hang on.

MATT: Minutes of silence pass. No response. Nothing.

LIAM: I go to bed.

MATT: Okay. As you get to your bed, you look down and a single black feather is currently set on the pillow before you.

LIAM: I tuck it behind my ear.

MATT: All right. The rest of you going to sleep for the evening?

ALL: Yes.

ASHLEY: As we're walking to sleep, I grab Scanlan real quick. I grabbed Scanlan real quick once everybody's–

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: So, I have to tell you something.

SAM: You don't have to answer now.

ASHLEY: It's not an answer for that.

SAM: No, it's fine, I was, it was, I was impetuous and silly and I don't know sometimes, I get hamhanded around you– I'm very smooth with everybody else, I don't know what it is.

ASHLEY: It's just that– it's fine. It's okay. I have to confess something to you. When you gave me that letter–

SAM: Yes?

ASHLEY: When you told me not to read it until you died–

SAM: Yes?

ASHLEY: I read it immediately after you left. Because curiosity gets the best of me sometimes, I can't– it's not–

SAM: But you can't, you're like a priest or something, you can't lie!

ASHLEY: I know, but that– what does that even mean?

SAM: I don't know, I–

ASHLEY: I go back and forth with it.

SAM: There was personal stuff in there!

ASHLEY: I know, but what– I know, it was very personal, and I just wanted to tell you that everything you said in that letter, I promise to you.

SAM: You do?

ASHLEY: That I give you my word that everything you said in that letter I promise to you I will do.

SAM: Really.

ASHLEY: If you die.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Which I am hoping that you never do.

SAM: Well, we've almost died a few times very recently.

ASHLEY: I know, and we've had so many close calls and I feel like I just needed to tell you so you had some comfort in your person, in your body, that you knew that if–

SAM: My body? What are you t– you sound like me, you're stammering and babbling like I was!

ASHLEY: I know, you do make me a little nervous and I'm not really sure why, and I need to reconcile these feelings.

SAM: We should just marry then!

ASHLEY: Well, I don't know!

SAM: I don't know either! It's a very strange relationship.

ASHLEY: I'm so confused. Maybe we should just sleep together and see what happens.

SAM: Okay, fine. No, you said it! You said it!

ASHLEY: I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding, it was just a joke.

SAM: You can't joke about that stuff with me!

ASHLEY: I know. I'm being careless, I think that drink that Wilhand gave me is settling, and it's– moving about. Making me say things.

SAM: I don't even know what's going on right now!

ASHLEY: I'm just kidding. I don't actually think we should sleep together. I just need to tell you that I–

SAM: Thank you for clarifying?!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Anyway, Scanlan, I love you.

SAM: This is not how I thought tonight was going to go! I feel betrayed, I feel let down, I feel so horny right now!

ASHLEY: Well, you've grown those forearms for a reason, so just go take care of business.

SAM: Oh, come on, Pike!

LIAM: That's some reincorporation right here.

MARISHA: Callback!

SAM: Listen. Everything I said in that letter I meant. And regardless of whether or not you totally betrayed me by reading it, I'm glad that you at least understood the sentiment, I hope?

ASHLEY: I did.

SAM: And appreciated my honesty and the fact that you are taking that vow? If I die.

ASHLEY: Yes, I am taking that vow.

SAM: Yes, I understand. Well then, that's fine. That's all I need.

ASHLEY: Okay. And I was trying to be funny and I didn't mean to be careless with your feelings.

SAM: No, I know, I didn't know why I proposed, that's stupid.

ASHLEY: I do love you so much.

SAM: I love you!

ASHLEY: And a part of my heart does– I do love somebody else very much.

SAM: I'm sorry?

ASHLEY: But my feelings are growing for you a little bit in a weird way and I'm not sure what it is, but we'll figure it out. I'm confused.

SAM: I think we both are? Anyway. Thank you for telling me the truth after you sort of lied to me, so–

ASHLEY: But I never told you I did not read it!

SAM: –oh, I know, but all right. Anyway. Thank you for this– sort of. I guess I have to go to my room and think about this while I stare at my picture in the mirror above my bed.

ASHLEY: Which is– what's your picture?

SAM: It's just a mirror.

(laughter)

SAM: But, listen. I do love you, I will always love you, even in death, and thank you for telling me that and– I hope it doesn't come to that, but if it does, that makes me feel a little bit better about things.

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, I love you.

SAM: Sleep tight.

ASHLEY: I give him a hug and a kiss on his cheek.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I kick the dirt a little bit and then I walk away and I click my heels. Little jump-and-click.

MATT: And– anything else, before the evening's rest comes? All right. Sleep finds you all, some easier than others, until a measured period of time, I believe?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Grog sprung awake, gathered the folks in the pre-dawn hour of the following morning. You gather your stuff, exit the mansion, and start making your way towards the Margrave's house.

TRAVIS: Is there anyone on the street?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: 19. Plus zero.

MATT: You guys exit Wilhand's place and there is a cross-street that Wilhand's home is nearby, that's like a building sandwiching it on each side, and the one just south of it is on the corner of that cross street. Across the way as you guys exit the room, or exit the front of the building, you see two figures stand up, arms crossed. The same individuals you saw earlier.

MARISHA: Of Wilhand's place?

TRAVIS: Same people I saw outside of the house earlier. All right, fuck this shit. I turn and I walk towards those two people.

MATT: Okay. You approach, you recognize them. They're the same two people that were watching you while you guys were resting directly after the battle with Kevdak in the center of the square, the two that were assigned to keep an eye on you.

TRAVIS: Hello. What're your two names?

MATT: They look at each other. “Veskin. Mortar. What do you want?”

TRAVIS: Funny, I feel like I've seen you about in the last few hours, watching us.

MATT: “Keeping an eye out.”

TRAVIS: Huh. Why?

MATT: “Because you killed our leader. Takes a while to see what strength is a man who's killed your leader. If he's a murderer. If he's an honor-bound man. Or if he's a piece of shit that you should wipe off your heels.”

TRAVIS: Hm.

MATT: “Takes a bit of watching to get that. Jury's still out.”

TRAVIS: Don't you have a new leader now?

MATT: They look at each other. “Maybe.”

TRAVIS: Would you like to walk with us? We're going for a little morning stroll.

MATT: “Nothing else to do.” And they wipe a little bit of sleep from one of the corner of the eye. “Lead on.”

TRAVIS: And we head to the Margrave's house.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I put my old-school circlet back on, by the way, but I have the other circlet with me.

MATT: Okay. So you've re-attuned to the original circlet. You guys, walking through the town as you do, there is a bit of business, there are, some of the street lanterns have been lit, where previously at this hour they would be greatly diminished, there is movement, you see some of the Herd that are now wandering forth, armoring up, gathering weapons, you know this. This is the morning before a siege. This is the pre-dawn meditation before the Herd takes its next– yeah. Warpaint being applied, breakfasts being enjoyed, people preparing themselves for the frenzy of battle, this is the pre-war ritual of the Herd of Storms. As you make your way southward, across the once-battlefield, returned-town-square outside the Margrave's home, to the front doors, the door is open and you see there are two individuals sitting at the front. One of which is a goliath keeping watch, to the right of him on the other side is a gruff-looking female human, humanoid, sitting there, arms crossed, watching as you guys approach.

TRAVIS: I make eye contact with both of them. I seek an audience with Zanror.

MATT: “He's expecting you, get in.”

TRAVIS: We go in.

MATT: So you guys walk into the house, you see the interior of the Margrave's abode. Across the way there is a haphazard throne that's been built from lumber and carts and things that were pulled from resources within the town. You can see this is probably where Kevdak sat once they had taken the home, the estate.

TRAVIS: I grab my earpiece and very lightly say, Vax, keep your eyes about you.

MATT: Are you all entering with Grog?

ALL: Yeah, sure.

SAM: Should we leave a couple outside or anything or no?

TRAVIS: Nope, stay together.

MATT: Okay. You guys all enter into the foyer area. The throne is across the way, there's a long hallway that leads to the back of the estate, and at the very back you can see the throne. There are some low sconces in the walls that give the flicker of light, in the center there is a round table which is currently set. There are some weapons and daggers, a few javelins tossed onto it, looks like some fruit that's partially eaten, and there on the table you see Zanror, already armored up, arms splayed across the side, looking down at the table, looking down at the weapons before him. Behind him, you see his wife, the lady, the other pregnant goliath that is currently behind rubbing his shoulders and talking to him into his ear. They both look up and see as you approach, at which point Zanror whispers to her for a second.

LAURA: What does he say?

MATT: He says, “We have company.” They both sit back as he goes upright as you approach. “Glad to see you had the sense to take my summons. So. Now's the day where we prepare.”

TRAVIS: Aye, wouldn't miss it for the world.

MATT: (sighs) “First and foremost, Grog, take that shit off. It's really freaking out most of our people.”

TRAVIS: It is pretty sweet, though, isn't it?

MATT: “It's confusing, to say the least, aye?”

TRAVIS: We all have our preparations to make before battle. Don't worry about mine.

MATT: “To each their own, I suppose. Heh. You've fallen in some strange paths since we last met.”

TRAVIS: You have no idea.

MATT: “Rest of you, can we expect your attendance in this glorious fight?”

LIAM: Wherever Grog goes, we go as well.

MATT: “Good. Good.”

MARISHA: I suppose we could ask the same of your Herd, Leader Zanror.

MATT: “We're prepared now. And we've met around with the remaining Herd, we've spread the tale of Kevdak's fall. Demanded solidarity under my arms and yours. And our plan to show our strength and independence from his reign by cutting down the black dragon of Gatshadow. Many are easily swayed by words of bloodshed and glory. Others, the hesitation in their eyes worries me. Now Greenbeard had set us down a path of ruin, coming here. We conquer and move as a people. This life without roaming, lording over a broken city, living under the thumb of a drake? This is not our life. Since Greenbeard's age and selfishness had caught up to him, Kevdak's lust for the fear of others swayed his judgment into more self-indulgent territory. And while we all quelled rebellion, gathered gold and goods, while I parlayed with that beast, my uncle stayed in here.” Points back at the throne behind him. “Taking his drink and his women, breaking those who could not defend themselves out of idle boredom. I could see it. Regret. He'd listened to the old man and led us into ruin, but the only thing stronger than Kevdak's might was his pride. So we stayed. He could not admit he was wrong. He abandoned reason and foresight. And I questioned him, our actions here in the city. Our future. He beat me and threw me into chains. So learning from the mistakes, here. When this dragon is done, we leave. We have no place in this city.”

LAURA: You speak of pride, of listening to reason. Might be smart to listen to reason in this instance as well. That dragon is ancient and very large. It's quite possible he'll wipe out all of us, the town included. It might be smart to swallow our pride for the day and prepare. Come back when we have preparations made and we can take the dragon down.

MATT: “Please understand, the dragon has claimed quite the tithe from our people. We've provided what we can, what we could scavenge, but even then the coffers of this town that we could acquire are growing thin. The reason that we were preparing for this attack even before you arrived is because we were at the end of our rope. Many of the people made away from this town with their goods before we came, and many still have escaped our grasp when we took over. So the paltry sums that we could gather in the time that we did hold reign over Westruun– the dragon is not going to be happy that each package dwindles with each passing couple of days. Either we take this element of surprise and fight it on our own terms, or we wait for it to come to us angry, on its. And if we leave now, the Herd may survive. But I haven't heard of a dragon that when crossed lets that vengeance fly. And I'll be honest with you, we leave a trail behind us, as you know.”

TRAVIS: That I do. It is a wide wake, my friend.

MATT: At this point, the door slams open behind you guys. You see a muscular man walks in, skin sun-scarred and calloused, his long, black hair clustered in wild, unkempt clumps. A wild elf, Tress, who accompanied you to the square naught but earlier the day before walks in behind him. “Ivon, your timing is good. We speak on.” At which point this man steps forward to the table, pushing you guys aside and looking directly at Zanror. “We do not recognize you, Zanror. Kevdak was the Thunderlord who conquered the River Maw, and now he's dead. You take his title unearned and intend to lead us into suicide against a dragon that even Kevdak feared. We will not stand for this. The River Maw are picking up and leaving. Now. We return to our fens, to lead our people. You can all die for your own reasons.” Zanror leans forward, very serious, a grave look on his face. “Are you saying you're abandoning the Herd?” At which point you can see there's tension in his muscles, and you can see Tress currently reaching back for a weapon and Ivon, not breaking a sweat, leans into his face, square chiseled jaw going, “Yeah. I guess that's what I'm saying. Herd of Storms is no more if you're going to lead us into death. We'd rather live on. Back to the lives we had before you came in and mucked it up.” “Close the doors!” Zanror says, and the door shuts behind.

SAM: Shit.

MATT: Zanror looks to you. “What do you say, Grog Strongjaw, slayer of Kevdak, he who raises might against the dragon?”

TRAVIS: Thunderlord, we back your play.

MATT: “The rest of you, those who travel this world afar, outside of our people, where does your allegiance lie?”

SAM: Well, certainly not with the cowards who're abandoning you in the face of a tough fight.

MATT: Ivon turns to you now, eyes red with fury. “Who're you calling a coward, little man?”

TRAVIS: Watch where you turn your gaze. It may be the last movement your head makes attached to your body.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's not good. Ten.

MATT: Ten.

SAM: I'm dead.

MATT: He's still staring at Scanlan. (spits) Spits right in your face.

SAM: That's not very nice.

MATT: “No. It's not. Neither is calling me a coward.”

SAM: Well, I'm just a guest here, so I don't want to spill anyone's blood in someone else's throne room, so I'll be the bigger man and take a step back.

MATT: As you take a step back, he stands back up, turns to Zanror. “Zanror. Open the door. Let us go live our lives and you can run into whatever fires you want. The last thing we need is a civil war this morning.” What do you say?

LAURA: How many people do you have with you?

MATT: Turns to you. “And you are?”

LAURA: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: “We take 18 with us, west of the Fens. Let us be. It's not fair to drag them into this chaos.”

ASHLEY: May I say something? I realize you want to go and protect your people, but even if you run, you guys will eventually come across a dragon that will kill all of your people. So what if we fight together? Because there's strength in numbers.

SAM: Maybe we should just let them leave.

MATT: Make a persuasion check. With disadvantage.

LAURA: Why?

MATT: Because you're a tiny gnome talking up to a very burly man who's–

ASHLEY: Yeah, but I have Gnome Cunning– charisma–

MATT: Right. Go ahead and make your roll.

ASHLEY: So I have advantage on charismas.

MATT: On charismas?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Pike.

ASHLEY: I do! Gnome Cunning– Advantage on all intelligence, wisdom, and charisma.

SAM: Saves.

LAURA: Saving throws.

ASHLEY: Oh yes, I didn't read the rest of it.

MATT: Yeah. That's not really going to help with that, unfortunately.

ASHLEY: All right, so persuasion?

MATT: This is persuasion.

ASHLEY: Little persuashe? All right, that's a 20. Fuck. Nine? Hah, he laughs.

MATT: “It's interesting, Zanror, I walk into here and suddenly all the tiny people are talking for you. Tress, let's go.”

LIAM: I'm a head taller. Talk to me.

MATT: “I ain't got time for this shit anymore.”

LIAM: Make time. Blade out. Those dragons are going to find you and me and everyone in this room, whether we fight them now or later. The only stupid thing we can do is separate ourselves from each other– yeah, keep twitching, twitchy. I don't want to fight this dragon today either, but stupider than that is splitting this group of powerful motherfuckers apart. I'd rather walk away from here, I'd rather take everyone out of this city and build our strength and come back and hobble this beast, but the stupidest thing you could do right now is separate yourself from the Herd. You make yourself weaker, you don't have them to protect you while you're in the fields alone while that dragon belches shit on you from above. You're strong. These fucking guys are strong. We need to be smart. Your strength is shit compared to that dragon. Shit.

MATT: “And your tiny people are going to do better?”

LAURA: Our tiny people are pretty fucking powerful.

ASHLEY: We've already killed dragons.

SAM: I'm getting pretty sick and tired of being called tiny. Listen, I don't want to–

MATT: “Killed dragons?”

ASHLEY: I pull out my necklace with the tooth on it.

MATT: “Lemme see that.” He pulls it forward and looks it over. “Can buy that in any caravan that passes through.”

LAURA: We killed a white dragon, motherfucker.

ASHLEY: I spit at his feet.

SAM: Oi! Forget it, guys, why are we trying– Why are we trying to convince this asshole to fight with us? Let's just let him leave, he's a coward.

MARISHA: Zanror, if he doesn't have your allegiance in this room, he will not have your allegiance on the battlefield, let them go. Only big men talk big words that only fail on the battlefield. He has nothing to represent any of his claims. Let him go.

LIAM: The only difference between you and us is that we want to actually kill this thing. You want to be a prick.

MARISHA: Zanror– Zanror, it's not worth losing any of your men before we fight this dragon, just let them go. You're already losing 18.

MATT: “Open the door.” The door slowly opens behind them. “All right, Ivon, you want to leave? Go. Take your people. But you better go now. Because when we're done cutting that dragon down we're going to come after you. Deserters. Or you can come to this fight with us. Yes, these dragon-slayers, he who fell from the sky and cut the uncuttable down– we will gloriously bathe in the blood of that beast, take back the spoils that we fed it. You can do what you please. I have no interest in lording over you.” Looks about the rest of you. “I've got your arms at my back for this. Aye?”

TRAVIS, ASHLEY, and LAURA: Aye.

MATT: Tress puts her hand to the side. Ivon looks at her. “We'll take our chances with the wild.” Turns around and exits the room.

ASHLEY: As Ivon starts going out, I want to trip him. Stick my foot out.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

MATT: All right. Okay.

TRAVIS: Wars have been started over less.

ASHLEY: It'll probably fail.

MATT: Go ahead and make a strength check. Plus four to your roll, is what it'd be.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: (stumbling) Catches himself. Shoots you a look.

ASHLEY: Sorry, I'm so small. You probably just didn't see me.

(laughter)

MATT: They both exit out the door.

LIAM: Have fun melting in (trails off) acid– and they're gone.

MATT: Door closes.

ASHLEY: Dick.

MATT: “Sorry about that. So.”

LAURA: How many do you have left? After they left.

MATT: “18… you're looking at about 25 strong. We have more wounded, but they're not going to be of use in this battle.”

LAURA: 25.

MATT: “25 strong people.”

SAM: Does that include your wife?

MATT: “No, she's not–” And she turns around and goes, “I will fight in this. You are not going to keep me from glory.” He goes, “She will fight with us.”

TRAVIS: Aye, she will. 25 strong we have. Injured are no good to us. Neither are the prisoners or hostages that were kept by this herd. You said you have made preparations. What sort of preparations do you have in mind?

MATT: “Well, the creature sleeps at the top of Gatshadow. We've acquired an ally in this city that seems to know a secret byway to get to the side of that cavern. I figure that way we can go ahead and take the fight to it where it sleeps, when it's not ready.”

TRAVIS: Interesting.

MATT: “Can't fly if it's stuck in a cave.”

TRAVIS: Very true. Have you seen this cave?

MATT: “Only from afar, but we have some scouts that are making their way there right now.”

TRAVIS: Might report back with how– the size of the cave.

MATT: “Should know soon.”

MARISHA: If I'm not mistaken, I recall hearing that no scouts that have been sent thus far have returned, is that correct?

MATT: “That is correct.”

MARISHA: And you have faith that these that you sent will?

MATT: “It's better than not.”

TRAVIS: Do you have any interest in a tactical ambush?

MATT: “I'm all ears. What have you got?”

MARISHA: When's it due for its next pickup?

MATT: “Tomorrow morning, just after dawn.”

MARISHA: Wait 24 hours, Pike and I can take time, and Scanlan, to heal some of your wounded, gain a couple more to the fight. We set a trap in the morning.

MATT: “What kind of trap?”

LAURA: Something that explodes it?

MARISHA: Something big.

LAURA: Something that traps it?

MARISHA: Something heavy.

TALIESIN: Something, even in theory, that we could convince it to take back to its lair. If we still wanted to go with that, we could load the next parcel with something–

SAM: Or someone.

LIAM: Would three days be better than one, Percival?

TALIESIN: A month would be better than a week–

TRAVIS: Don't have that. One thing dragons–

TALIESIN: Yes, three days would always be better than one.

TRAVIS: Dragons and Kevdak shared one common trait: arrogance. In your previous dealings with this dragon, did it ever speak down to you?

MATT: “Huh. That's the only way it knows how to speak. Fucking cold-minded beast.”

TRAVIS: Aye.

MATT: “Can't wait to sever its head from its neck.”

TRAVIS: Perhaps if we tame your lust for blood for a day, we can control all the variables that we have by setting this trap. If we go to that cave, aye, we will find war sooner, but we know less, and the reason you're the Thunderlord now is there is a better brain in that skull than there ever was in your father's. Let's use that to our advantage.

MATT: Make a persuasion check. Does anyone want to aid?

TRAVIS: Don't need it.

LAURA: (sings) He doesn't need it.

TRAVIS: 19.

SAM: He might need it.

MATT: Takes a moment. “We'll take your day. Set what you need. We'll go ahead and call the troops off for the day. Heal our wounded. Let's make this such a majestic death for this terrible creature.”

MARISHA: Zanror– I think Percy just had an idea, but Vex'ahlia knows a lot about dragons. She might be good to educate the troops. Also, as Grog mentioned, we have people who could be very valuable allies that your people have imprisoned. It would behoove you to release them so that they can join our side. Conversely, any other type of magical enhancements that you can use to arm against acid?

LAURA: Acid.

MARISHA: For any and all of your troops, it's definitely suggested.

MATT: “I'll talk to our Speakers. They should be able to mount what they can. Acid, you say?”

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: “Okay. We'll do that.”

LAURA: You'll release the prisoners?

MATT: “Would like one of you to at least go with them, but aye, we can do that. All right. Let's begin our planning, for tomorrow we kill a dragon.”

LAURA: We totally planned at dawn!

(laughter)

SAM: Episode title!

MATT: And on that note we're going to end tonight's episode. Pick this up next week.

TRAVIS: Planned at dawn.

MATT: You totally did!

TRAVIS: See?

(laughter)

ASHLEY: At dawn, we plan.

TALIESIN: Have fun you guys, I'll be on a beach next week, but– it's okay, I'll be, I'll try–

LIAM: Where're you going, brainiac?

TALIESIN: To Hawaii.

MATT: We can Skype you in.

TALIESIN: I can Skype in. I'll try and Skype in. I'll see how much internet I can get on the island.

MATT: Oh. Wait, what?

SAM: Barack is here?

MATT: Is it open? All right guys, the Geek and Sundry open beta is next week!

SAM: What's that mean?

MATT: We'll be hosting, oh, Talking Heads, awesome new shows every day, a bunch of new shows we'll be trying out from up here on the channel.

LAURA: Oh, shit! It's like pilot season.

MATT: Essentially, yeah. We'll be throwing a bunch of cool stuff up. Be every day at looks like 5:00 Pacific on twitch.tv/geekandsundry, where you are now most likely? But yeah. Come check out next week, bunch of new content thrown at this channel, come and give it your support, see if it's your speed, feedback, all the fun stuff. And also once again, thank you, Loot Crate, for being our sponsor.

ALL: Yay!

MATT: It's been awesome to have an official sponsor for once.

MARISHA: It's like it's a real thing now.

MATT: I know, it's weird. Yeah. So once again, you can go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole, put in “criticalrole” to get three dollars off your subscription, it's awesome, thank you for watching. Back next week and I think interesting things are going to happen.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: So. All right, guys. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

MATT: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight, apologies for the slight technical issues, but we're back and we're going to be playing through tonight's adventure. Before that gets started, let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick announcements. First and foremost, it's our third week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very much.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you for your interest in our show and our audience, so for those of you who are interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service where once a month they bring you themed boxes that have mystery contents within that are part of that theme. All generally pop culture and geek-centric.

LAURA: Taliesin, you're so loud!

MATT: Taliesin, quiet!

SAM: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Stop masturbating during the announcements.

LAURA: It's so loud. What are you doing?

TALIESIN: I think I hit my microphone.

SAM: Don't worry. You're not an audio professional.

MATT: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a very climactic and important emotional moment in the game.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.

ASHLEY: You're welcome!

MATT: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome. We've gone with it for years. They send mystery items that are all geek and pop culture-related. They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and check it out. If you like it and you get a subscription, you can use criticalrole– one word– as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.

SAM: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate right now.

TRAVIS: And they've got a power crate coming out.

LAURA: David Bowie! Labyrinth!

TRAVIS: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.

MARISHA: That's pretty dope.

LAURA: Is that giving something away? I feel like we gave spoilers.

LIAM: It was already Periscoped.

LAURA: Oh, that's true. Never mind.

MATT: That would be nice in the box. We're good? We didn't waste it?

LIAM: What's in the box?

ASHLEY: (singing) A dick in a box.

MATT: I hope there is no dick in a box as part of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do, depending on– that's a whole different box service.

MARISHA: If there is, you should call your local post office.

(laughter)

MATT: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so! Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a fantastic charity that's been with us from the very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that promotes creative writing skills and literacy in mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at which they normally don't have access to tutoring and people to help them on that direction, so if you can and have the opportunity and you're feeling like giving to some awesome people out there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is a great charity to take a look at, so please. You guys have been a tremendous help in the past and you may continue to be so, if you wish.

TRAVIS: Absolutely.

MATT: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?

TALIESIN: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel room. Somewhere– which island are we on? Oahu. We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.

MATT: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this, you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great folks that are out there with you. All good people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?

LAURA: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.

LIAM: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.

LAURA: Good times.

TRAVIS: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and bushy-tailed.

LIAM: It's a good one, though.

TRAVIS: It's a good one?

LIAM: Yeah, I went to that one.

TRAVIS: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San Juan!

MATT: That's pretty slick, actually.

MARISHA: That's awesome.

MATT: Does anybody else– you said you wanted to mention something?

LIAM: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout: Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump. “Fah Hahbah.” Fallout is my favorite way to escape reality second to this, so I hope you come join me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth. Look for the synth.

SAM: I think I play a synth. And there you go.

LIAM: There you go. That's it.

SAM: Good plug.

MARISHA: You can also build a Taliesin robot, which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.

LAURA: Aw, that's awesome!

MATT: So you could take either a custom-build Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything they want to mention before we jump into the game tonight?

TRAVIS: Let's do this.

MARISHA: I don't want to die.

MATT: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!

SAM: Nothing's happening.

MATT: No intro.

SAM: Nothing's happening.

(laughter)

SAM: Wait! Let's act it out.

MATT: Act out the intro?

MARISHA: Okay!

(imitating music)

TRAVIS: (growls)

MARISHA: (swishing sound effects)

SAM: Taliesin, do something!

LIAM: Shoot from your screen!

LAURA: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!

LIAM: Then you got hit by a wang!

LAURA: Oh, you fall over!

MATT: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley picks him up.

LAURA: She's healing him.

ASHLEY: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding my holy symbol!

MATT: And it got weird.

ASHLEY: Had to add it.

MATT: And now it swings–

LIAM: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc! (stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!

LAURA: Pew pew!

LIAM: And I'll go oh!

LAURA: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.

TRAVIS: This was not the plan, for the love of god help us!

LAURA: And then I shoot another one at you!

[actual intro plays]
Part I

MATT: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck that is tonight.

(laughter)

MATT: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might of the new programming, and we stand tall for tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously, Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that are currently holding power in this region and beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions of society in this countryside. They have gone on a quest to search for artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King. Now as part of this confrontation, they made their way to the city of Westruun, which was partially destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it was off and away with the rest of the Conclave, was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms that Grog once belonged to. After finding it occupied by these rather brutal barbaric individuals, Vox Machina set into the city, destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to much fanfare from Grog's past. And through Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they decided to take the remainder of the Herd of Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has decided to leave to their own devices, where the rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.

TRAVIS: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd you have to say it like that? It's just a black dragon!

MATT: What else am I going to say?

LIAM: Why the dramatic pauses?

MATT: Because it's fun.

TRAVIS: You used the word 'somehow'.

MATT: I like it. You guys, having just finished this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now beginning to pour over the mountain range in the distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of his trusted Herd members to stand down for the day, letting people know that the battle has been postponed for the time being while a plan is to be enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the following day. The rest of you guys have this day to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what would you like to do?

SAM: We have so many things that we need to do!

MATT: Where do we begin?

SAM: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our allies. We need lots of chains.

LAURA: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the ground.

SAM: For that we'll need some bindings of some sort: chains, hooks, spikes.

TALIESIN: I have a thought, I have a thought in that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking of basically building what is essentially a giant pressurized mousetrap.

LAURA: Is there, how would you do that?

LIAM: How much time do you need, Perce?

TALIESIN: Do I have access to some people to help build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks of wood and chain?

MATT: You do have access to broken homes, chain, and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals that can aid you, you have individuals that can help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is not known for its ingenious use of tinkering tools, but–

LAURA: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there any blacksmiths left?

MATT: You can check around.

TALIESIN: This would be a blacksmith just to make a couple springs. This is not a complicated– This is literally something you could make in the woods. It's a slightly more complex version of something you could make in the woods to catch birds. I'm just building a really big version. It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will have chains and weights on them that when you disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of– it's basically a netting system. It's an entanglement and will be an entanglement.

MATT: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.

LAURA: Can we help him at all?

MATT: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.

TALIESIN: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.

MATT: What'd you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a six.

LAURA and MATT: With advantage?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: So! After taking the better part of about three hours scouring the town, most of the remaining villagers–

LAURA: He took three hours doing that?!

MATT: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with the aid of people that aided him, which would be Vex asking about, the few folks that have any experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent of the complication they can create. So they can attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs. They have the materials to do very basic metalwork and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two folks in particular, they're both a little confused by your overall design and are waiting for you to lead them in a specific direction.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm just going to take them and I'm going to start building one and see if they can follow suit then. Three springs will be more than enough for this design.

MATT: How big a spring?

TALIESIN: I would say, how tall is this dragon?

MATT: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.

TALIESIN: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then. Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a process that exists. I'm not going nuts.

MATT: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a little stretched for supplies and manpower based on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty much take the entirety of your day and most of your night to prepare this. You'll be able to squeeze by with this, with the construction of the device, and have maybe just enough room for– I'll let you squeeze in a long rest.

TALIESIN: That'll be perfect.

MATT: But that's success or fail.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MATT: Okay. What are the rest of you guys planning?

LIAM: Three hours ago, back when we were still together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want to talk to you. I have an idea.

SAM: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still worried about her. But I don't think that we should discuss her right now. We have other things! Why are you harping on this? She's my daughter.

(laughter)

SAM: Just give it a rest.

LIAM: You're right, I should have never dragged you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon, to be honest, but I think the group is going that direction. If we do– Percival's run off to try something, maybe we're just going to run out. I have an idea that only you can do.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: We have a rod.

SAM: Yes.

LIAM: Not the cube. A rod that cannot be moved.

SAM: We could use it in some way.

LIAM: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how would you feel about teleporting inside of Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.

SAM: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be nasty in there!

LIAM: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I haven't talked to my sister about this. She might be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead with this. I don't want you to do it because I feel like you could melt in there.

SAM: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little man and he's got acid on him!

LIAM: I know. I'm looking for a way through this fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to do, you could go in there and click that rod and give him the worst suppository ever invented!

SAM: Listen. If there's a man invented who can go to where shit is made and make some really good shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan B.

LIAM: As a plan B. And I take him by the shoulders. You remember that little talk we had about a week ago, when you told–

SAM: Is this about Kaylie again?

LIAM: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of days, all right?

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: When you told me how things were better now? Okay, you remember that?

SAM: Yes.

LIAM: That was fucking insane. They are not better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are terrible. They are way worse than they were six months ago, way worse. I was with all of you assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're way worse.

SAM: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is confiding in one of his closest friends while holding him on the shoulders. This you never had before.

LIAM: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad you're here.

SAM: I'm glad to be with you.

LIAM: And I love you. And I give him a playful slap across the face.

SAM: Six points of damage.

(laughter)

MATT: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of damage.

SAM: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An expert in dragons I hope?

LAURA: I'm an expert on dragons.

SAM: And ask her how dragons work, how their bodies work.

LAURA: What do you mean?

SAM: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the acid, where they have lungs, where they have stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow with eight stomachs or something?

MATT: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with advantage.

TRAVIS: Cows have eight stomachs?

MARISHA: They've got like two or three.

LAURA: Shut up! 17.

MATT: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you imagine they would have in the right vicinity. Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been known to dissolve some of the hardiest of creatures, let alone break down some basic minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place to be, but it's not like instantaneous dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not come from its stomach. That acid is much more toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism that projects it outward.

LAURA: Where's the gland located? Would I know that, like, in his throat?

MATT: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not entirely certain.

SAM: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that would be not good.

MATT: That would be really bad.

LIAM: Don't roll a one!

ASHLEY: But that would probably be really hard to just get right into that spot.

LIAM: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.

LAURA: It would be instantaneous, at least.

SAM: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.

SAM: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you have some sort of acid-resistant something.

LAURA: The armor? That I took from him?

LIAM: Yes, my armor. She has it.

LAURA: Well– are you here? Are you next– are you next to me now?

LIAM: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling my eyes and doing this the whole time you're talking about dragons.

LAURA: It's the armor that I won fair and square from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.

SAM: Is that your primary armor?

LAURA: It is.

SAM: How would you feel about me asking you to take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving it to me instead?

LAURA: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of money.

SAM: We could swap armor.

LAURA: You think your little armor will fit me.

SAM: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.

LAURA: What kind of armor do you have?

SAM: I have cold snap leather armor.

LAURA: Which is cold resistant?

SAM: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw snowballs at you.

LAURA: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.

MATT: So it's armor plus two.

LIAM: It's better overall.

LAURA: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it to me.

SAM: Can we do that?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Strip on down there, Scanlan.

SAM: Well, ladies first!

LAURA: No, you first, I want to see the cube and then I'll give you my armor.

SAM: Shall we make it interesting and play a little poker?

LAURA: There's no time for that.

SAM: All right. I very slowly and sultrily unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's just me and the cube. And I cry a little.

(laughter)

LIAM: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing. Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't know.

LAURA: I try really hard not to start laughing.

SAM: Go with what your body tells you to do. How are you going to take off your armor?

LAURA: That's a good question. Do you want to walk away for this?

LIAM: Yeah, I leave the room.

LAURA: I completely ungracefully take it off and throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm into these extra-skinny jeans.

MATT: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up, they shift and formfit to your size as part of their enchantment.

LAURA: What color is it? Is it beautiful?

MATT: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns with traces of white and silver along the edges as a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.

LAURA: Does it match my storm bow?

MATT: Yeah, I guess you could say that.

LAURA: You might not be getting this back, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?

MATT: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and hanging off of you.

SAM: Oh, these are like C-cups up here.

(laughter)

MATT: As the armor slowly retracts and finds itself to your form.

SAM: Oh! They went down.

MATT: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about himself.

SAM: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll continue our dragon lesson I suppose.

LAURA: Wait, why did you need to change– are you going to be up close and personal with him?

SAM: Well, I think we all are, you know. He breathes acid.

LAURA: Well yes, but.

SAM: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more protected than you are!

LAURA: This was a really stupid– why did I give that up?

SAM: I'm very charming.

LAURA: Now you're not here?

LIAM: You told me to leave! You took off your clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you talking about?

LAURA: Are you planning on doing something?

SAM: We're all planning on doing something, and I don't think that my part of the plan is any stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you. I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead body.

LAURA: As long as you're not melted from all the acid.

ASHLEY: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand sword.

MATT: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of disruption and taking on the frostband instead. Okay. Cool.

LIAM: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm going to go find Percival.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I catch up with him pretty quick?

MATT: You would know the direction he went, and thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the center of the town now that it's missing most of its populace, and those that are there are acknowledging the tension of what might be coming, and many of them are now packing up and leaving and getting out of the town, evacuating when they've been notified of the possible coming battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance, and the gathering of materials from some of the rubble is not too difficult to discern over time. Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.

LIAM: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!

TALIESIN: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy with this all day, yeah?

TALIESIN: Oh yes. This is quite a project.

LIAM: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?

TALIESIN: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly, as far away from this as humanly possible.

LIAM: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use of your blade?

TALIESIN: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that you're getting that close to it, but here it is.

LIAM: It's just in case.

TALIESIN: It's quite a piece.

LIAM: Good luck today.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: Good luck tomorrow.

TALIESIN: I am down to my normal sword now.

LAURA: Can I be talking to Zanror?

MARISHA: I'll join you in that. That was my next plan.

MATT: The two of you eventually find Zanror. Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into the center of the town where the battle outside of the Margrave's house happened. Most of the warriors there are in the process of steeling themselves, some of them are gathering their materials, some are in the process of doing some minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the battle. There is very little conversation happening. It seems like there is this quiet understanding that this, for many, might be their last day. They're making peace with the coming glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type acceptance of doom, but this is a different personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost a brimming excitement with the idea of possible glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past history, and very easy to see where he once came from.

LAURA: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit down in front of him.

MATT: “Oh, good to see you.”

MARISHA: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.

MATT: “This for me?”

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Looks to Worra.

MARISHA: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison you the night before a dragon-fight.

MATT: (laughs) “That would be rather stupid, wouldn't it?”

MARISHA: It would.

MATT: And he just downs it all in one big chug. “Thanks.”

LAURA: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before, that you have been the one speaking with the beast in the past?

MATT: “I have, aye.”

LAURA: So when it comes and gathers its treasure, it stops and talks, or does it just come and take it and leave?

MATT: “It has at times. More at the beginning. If it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off after the first few times. Now it just seems to come and take and find its way out.”

LAURA: So if the treasure looked different this time, it might stop and talk about it?

MATT: He stops for a second. “Maybe.”

LAURA: I'm curious because I know you said you are lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?

MATT: “Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know. That's what is forcing our hand right now.”

LAURA: What if we had a way of providing some gold? And maybe you provide an offering of a different kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had been plotting against the dragon and you found out about it. Would you be able to offer his body and the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?

MATT: “Huh.”

LAURA: Dragons are vain.

MATT: And you do know specifically white dragons, or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures they see below them, especially intended prey, torturing for extended periods of time before killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in some way shape or form on that same scale of self-love to the point of being a near-disease to many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a second and goes, “We can certainly try. I mean, I've got no more use for it, though it's going to be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty sure Grog took that with him.”

LAURA: Well, we may be able to get that back. How are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors from the dragon so as not to attract its attention? Because we may have some ideas.

MATT: “We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave it what little we have left, possibly lose two men in the process of delivering it, and then when it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to ambush it once it returned, use that time when it was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home.”

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: “That was our intent.”

MARISHA: We might be able to do one better.

LAURA: A dragon's lair is not–

MARISHA: Especially a black dragon's lair.

LAURA: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in fact, it's probably laid several traps against us already.

MATT: “Well, there's not much we can really do when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on the ground.”

LAURA: What if we could trap it onto the ground here?

MATT: “How do you intend to do that?”

LAURA: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite talented. And he's creating something to trap the dragon.

MATT: “Really.”

LAURA: Plus we can provide several chains. Once it's on the ground, maybe your very strong goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it, throw some chains up and over?

MARISHA: This pile of weapons you have here, I see a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest, could help wrangle him down.

MATT: He stops for a second and goes, “I just want to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size, strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20 men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't know how long. I hope that contraption your friend is making is strong enough to aid us that last little bit, because I get the feeling that if our might is put to just keeping it on the ground– well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we could be tending to. A lot less blades we could put into its hide.”

LAURA: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for a small amount of time before our magic users have their way with it.

MARISHA: About that time I light up my hands.

MATT: “That's impressive. You know what else is impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a matter of seconds.”

MARISHA: That is very impressive. You're not wrong.

MATT: “I just want to instill with you an understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and run into this unless you're absolutely certain. Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even with our weight behind it, it's going to be a difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of anchoring it down, something else we can put the chains to?”

MARISHA: About that time I walk over to the– is there a stone wall in here?

MATT: I mean, there are pieces of stone building in the vicinity.

MARISHA: I put my hand against the stone and I cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the stone as it turns to mud.

LAURA: And now turn it back, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick it in, and then turn it back.

MATT: All right. Let me look this up real fast.

MARISHA: See? Magic.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my hand over the spear.

LAURA: Ah? Ah? No strings!

MARISHA: Where is it, where is it?

MATT: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for– it's instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes, “So. What you're saying is if we can find a few places in which the rock is close to the surface, you could lock these chains in?”

MARISHA: I think I could lock the whole dragon in.

LAURA: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into the stone.

MARISHA: Beyond that, if that fails– And then I cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone, I'm just burning through all my spells as a demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two pillows?

ASHLEY: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!

SAM: Pillow fight!

(laughter)

LIAM: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!

MATT: “Goose down. Unexpected tactic.”

LAURA: I like how we're walking through all of these ideas and none of it's going to work when we get there.

MARISHA: I blast up two pillars, right next to Kevdak.

MATT: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?

MARISHA: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big goliath leader.

SAM: Whatever your name is.

MATT: That one, ohmygod.

MARISHA: And trap him in.

MATT: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the side as the stone shoots up.

MARISHA: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So– I know! Did not mean to lay a hand.

MATT: “All right, your point is made. We've got two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe not the same level, but–”

MARISHA: Fantastic.

MATT: “Want us to put them at your aid?”

MARISHA: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground around our trap, so that whenever we're ready, your army can bust out of the ground.

LAURA: Surprise.

MARISHA: Without being seen.

MATT: “Without being seen, what, are we going to bury my men?”

LAURA: Very lightly.

MARISHA: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should trust me.

LAURA: It was pretty great.

MARISHA: It worked well.

MATT: “I think we'll take our chances above ground, please.”

LAURA: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror, is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh, how many of your men do you have?

MATT: “Currently we're sitting at 25 total, including myself.”

LAURA: 25 men standing around. Don't you think it's going to be a little curious as to why all of the sudden– all of a sudden? There's a large number of people around, that's never been there before?

MATT: “You're asking me this, our plan was to go inside while it was out. But if you want us there, let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't think my men are going to like to be underground.”

MARISHA: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're buried alive.

MATT: “And what, they just leap out one by one through an opening?”

LAURA: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that they can come on up and out.

MARISHA: It'll be awesome, it will look like they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like badasses!

MATT: “I don't think that's going to really get a dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?” (sighs)

LAURA: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking in its claws.

MATT: “Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we can do, we can muster as far as these chains go.”

LAURA: A surprise attack is going to be one of our best shots at grounding this thing.

MATT: “So, am I to tell my men we're going to bury them in the ground?”

MARISHA: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be just like when you moved through the sewers to not be seen.

MATT: “I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the very first moment that dragon looks like it's going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons out. You do understand that.”

MARISHA: We would appreciate that, actually.

MATT: “Okay.”

LAURA: We want it to land, then we strike. We just want it to hit the fucking ground.

MATT: “Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have some gold to give?”

LAURA: Some gold to give.

MATT: “Try for Kevdak's corpse– I hope that's enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our coffers.” He turns around and him and Warra walk away, a couple of the men join them and they–

MARISHA: Oh, I actually– I go over to Warra real quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's going to be a boy or a girl yet?

MATT: “Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this fight will confirm.”

MARISHA: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has ever known.

LAURA: The stallion that mounts the world, for sure.

LIAM: There it is, there it is. It's in all our heads.

MATT: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title comes up.

(laughter)

MATT: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and goes, “Could be.” And she just turns and starts walking with him.

LAURA: So we really need to dig a trench.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a trench.

LAURA: Around the area that the treasure is going to be.

MARISHA: How far is it?

MATT: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy to make out at this point because there have been large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's some barrels that are partially destroyed to the side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as it took off as well as a smattering of copper, silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through before when you first came to the town. But there's a definitive place that you recognize where this drop point is, it's out in the open in the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's just open field, so.

MARISHA: How far away is the nearest tree cluster?

MATT: To that, it's about– tree cluster? I mean, most of the trees that are here are singular, there's two trees that are within ten feet of each other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: When you dig the trench, can I use my perception and my ranger ability to camouflage things and make sure that from above the ground, from the height that the dragon will be looking at it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want this trap to be seen– I guess I should wait until we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it in place to do all of this.

MATT: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as far as the camouflage ability–

LAURA: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself, but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide tracks and stuff.

MATT: I'll say we can certainly give you–

LAURA: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness or something?

MATT: We can make something function a little bit there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful. If you have anything illusion-based that could even just help tidy up before. You do know that dragons are very perceptive creatures and are very– are not very trusting either. They're paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so anything you can use, whether it be illusion, camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible chance of it not trusting this scenario you're going to want to do, otherwise this thing might fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah, peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.

LIAM: That was all knowledge in your head.

LAURA: I know all of these things! All of a sudden!

MARISHA: Did he just say dragons have really high perception so don't fuck with anything and make it look weird?

LAURA: No, he said if we're going to do it, make sure it is hidden.

MARISHA: Right. Make it look real good. Right.

TRAVIS: Can I go up to some of the guards outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your prisoners, hostages, meat shields?

MATT: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun anymore, most of the guards that–

TRAVIS: I meant like the goliath, the Herd guards.

MATT: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little sparse right now, there aren't any towards the outside of town, most of them are gathering towards the center as the rest of the folks are leaving the town, finding their way out south of Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do find in the Margrave center, similar area to where they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering warriors that are getting their weapons ready, some of them armoring up to just see how easily they can get it on, some of them might even sleep in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as you approach and ask this question, one of them turns to you and goes, “Well, there's– the Iron Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners. The ones who were before and the few we did keep, well, those we chained up or executed, but there were a few that were thrown in there.”

TRAVIS: Are there any still in there? Or are they all clear?

MATT: “Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly.”

TRAVIS: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What was Reginald's daughter's name?

LAURA: I don't know if I wrote it down.

SAM: I wrote it down.

TRAVIS: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron Stocks.

MATT: Okay. And you've been here before, you know the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it was being used as still a prison. And seemed loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for use later on that never quite came to fruition.

MARISHA: I don't know her name either. We might not have known a name.

TRAVIS: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's daughter's name?

MATT: Do you remember her name?

TRAVIS: Are you asking me?

MARISHA: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down 'Reginald's daughter'.

SAM: Maybe he never told us her name.

MATT: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it, the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside you can already smell the place just reeks of refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers open on the front desk, you can see what looks to be a small group of– a barracks-type scenario to the left of the entrance that is just completely abandoned and looks like some cases are left open, scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out of Dodge.

TRAVIS: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to read it?

MATT: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a few pages, lotta great squiggles.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell–

TRAVIS: Any squiggles that look familiar?

MATT: Um, no. No, none that– I mean, some look familiar, some are more rounded–

TRAVIS: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?

MATT: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a voice echo from the right side of the room, down a hall just through the stone, you can barely make it out because the distance it's at, because you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a distance, but a voice just says, “Hey! Hey! In here! Need food please!”

TRAVIS: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open the door and try and make my way that way.

MATT: You charge down the hallway and there are a number of cells that are immediately here. Some of them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a few that you look off to the side, looks like a few individuals just passed away inside the cell. You come to a set of stairs that leads down into the next subterranean region and you hear the voice again, much closer, be like, “Hey! Hey! I hear your footsteps!” And you see a hand reaching out from behind some of the bars.

TRAVIS: Put your hand back inside.

MATT: The hand retracts as you look over.

TRAVIS: That's a good lad. What's your name? Before I approach. Still far enough away.

MATT: “Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in here far too long and very thirsty. I will be happily at your service, fair muscled man, should you see fit to relinquish me from these binds.” And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar, longish tattered hair, wearing just general tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look blistered and black.

TRAVIS: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.

MATT: “Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your service, if you could just–”

TRAVIS: My name is Lord Grog.

MATT: “Lord. It is my pleasure.” And he reaches through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what little strength he has.

TRAVIS: Man, you are looking a little rispy– Pour out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a goblet of ale.

MATT: He snatches it from you and slurps into it, extremely thirsty.

TRAVIS: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have three left. Now I have two. And I give him some dried food ration.

MATT: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the need to survive has taken over and he's just cramming it in there, choking a couple of times, keeping himself okay.

TRAVIS: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you in here, Orn Blackfoot?

MATT: “Ah, well, this is– everyone just started yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been terrible hearing the moans and screams going silent. I thought they abandoned us all.”

TRAVIS: No, they did, to be clear. They totally abandoned you. You are really the only person I know of that's in here. All the other mates around you, they're either sleeping or, you know.

MATT: “I appreciate the food and drink, you've certainly done–” At which point a voice comes from about two cells over behind you that goes– “Did I hear food and drink?”

TRAVIS: Fuck.

MATT: “Food– food and drink, please. Please.”

TRAVIS: Orn, did you kill all those dried food rations just now, did you just–

MATT: You see him very discreetly pocket some in his robe. “Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm sorry, friend.”

TRAVIS: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?

MATT: “What?”

TRAVIS: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move. And I walk over to see where the other voice is coming from.

MATT: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is the next set of bars, you see behind there a man in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt, reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red hair that is just crimped up around the base of it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock territory from how long he's been in there and mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner of his mouth. He looks up at you. “Sir, if you would be s– Grog?” And the moment of recognition hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you previously–

(yelling)

TRAVIS: Abjurist is a very powerful– he has knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was–

LAURA: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us when the white dragon came to Westruun.

LIAM: I was frozen in ice. That guy!

TRAVIS: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!

MATT: He looks pretty wrecked right now.

LAURA: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!

TRAVIS: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick, look. And I take the other, the second to last dry food ration, I give him that, and I give him a thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.

MATT: “Thank you, friend, thank you very much.”

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is there anybody else in this hallway before I give away my last bit of food?

MATT: You hear two voices simultaneously down the end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind of– “Hey, bring me food this way, please!” The other one is like, “Please, I ask of you, I'm starving.” And you see these two hands come out of the two cells in the distance.

TRAVIS: Right, I'm going to pick a number between one and ten. Ready? Go.

MATT: There's an awkward pause. “Three?” “Seven! Definitely seven!”

TRAVIS: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what, we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y–, why are you in here, who put you in here?

MATT: “I've only been in here for about a week. Got in an altercation in my store when these brutes started walking in. Threw me in here, didn't even let me take my spellbook.”

TRAVIS: Oh, that is a crime. I love b– I can't even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get you out– And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go, look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do anything, like, special?

MATT: “What?”

TRAVIS: Like, can you make your hands turn to flame, can you disappear, are you really good with a bow and arrow?

MATT: “No! No.” And he reaches out and grabbing at your clothes though and starts pulling you–

TRAVIS: Hey! Orn, chill!

MATT: “But I have friends in many places, though. I can, I can get you things. I can make connections–”

TRAVIS: Yeah, but most of the people in here are dead, right, like they're probably not–

MATT: “Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben. And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here and I can–”

TRAVIS: How long has it been since you've been to Emon?

MATT: “Few months?”

TRAVIS: You got any loved ones there?

MATT: “Why?”

TRAVIS: I don't know, just asking, like, do you want me to take a note from you to them or something, you know.

MATT: “No, if you can release me, I'd be more than happy to take it myself if you don't mind.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry. Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area. And I try and find any– is there a lever on the wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?

MATT: You– make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Fuck me.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit, you're not dead!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Minus two for a 17!

MATT: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good part of an hour or so clamoring through, just throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking the desk and actually throwing it onto its back and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of investigation here, you're just–

TRAVIS: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood in the locks just in case.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in some locks.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Forks, yeah.

MATT: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do eventually find in one of the cells, closed and locked as you look by, there is one person in guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in the cell. Not moving.

TRAVIS: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a bit.

MATT: No movement.

TRAVIS: I kick him harder.

MATT: No movement.

TRAVIS: I look down the hallway. I back up a few steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.

MATT: He just lurches over onto the side. Not moving.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?

MATT: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the decay starting to set in. And as you get close you can reach through the bars and see him, the actual area is closed and the door appears to be locked, and inspecting the body very quickly you can see that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and probably left in here to bleed out.

TRAVIS: Low perception.

MATT: But you do find on him what appears to be a ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but underneath the corpse, like he was– you gather best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got their way out, used that moment to stab him and escape.

TRAVIS: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist– Hey, do you know who those other two voices are at the end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with you when you got put in here?

MATT: “No, no one with me. Although– been plenty of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down the way.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.

MATT: “I can hear you!”

TRAVIS: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right here for one minute? I have to go perform an interview real fast.

MATT: “I'm all right.” And he just finishes eating the little bit of the ration that you gave him, like dried meats and bread.

TRAVIS: All right, sit tight. All right, you two, put both your hands outside the cell where I can see them.

MATT: They both put their hands out. The dwarven man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven arm is white, like bright white. The female hand comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little softer and younger.

TRAVIS: Female elven, or is this female–

LIAM: The daughter.

TRAVIS: Who said three?

MATT: At this point, the dwarf voice goes, (incoherent semi-cursing).

TRAVIS: I know, look, it's always lucky number three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?

MATT: “Racist little– peh!” And the arms just withdraw, and the woman, “That's me, that's me.”

TRAVIS: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.

MATT: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair, tangled, covering one half of her face. You can see the edges of her lips are cracked from just dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both of them actually are wearing just these long, simple cloth drape-over robes that are just, y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not be wearing their normal clothing.

TRAVIS: I've got three other goblets left, can I both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet their lips and get a drink in?

MATT: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it down, the dwarf's like, “Oh! That's nothing!” You can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly, crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.

TRAVIS: You're turning away good ale. Looks like you've seen many a moon.

MATT: “You're telling me that. But no, seriously, that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!”

TRAVIS: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.

MATT: “That's the ticket!” It's like spilling on the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he goes– catches it and then pushes it back in, not wasting a single drop.

TRAVIS: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?

MATT: “It's Amelia. I was taken because they were– the beasts were dealing with an uprising from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me as leverage in the argument. Stopped their– stopped their arguing.”

TRAVIS: You're– you're farm folk?

MATT: “Yeah.”

TRAVIS: Do you have any family?

MATT: “I do.”

TRAVIS: What are their names?

MATT: “There's my father Reginald.”

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.

MATT: “Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you seen any of the people out there?”

TRAVIS: No, I– we should get you out of here, there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're trying to get everyone out of the town.

MATT: And you hear a voice down the way say, “Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a great plan.” And the dwarf behind you is like, “Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!”

TRAVIS: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like. Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?

MATT: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.

TRAVIS: Shit.

MATT: And so you go through one, two, three, four, yeah.

LIAM: Six, six, six.

MATT: (laughs) And what would be the late teens, and for what to you seems like forever, one key does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She, who's been like sitting down the whole time, stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls herself up and waits for you to let her through if she does, just being patient.

TRAVIS: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me. Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald. Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going to get you out of the city, just stay put for a moment.

MATT: “Okay.”

TRAVIS: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's your name?

MATT: “Old Davin. What's your name?”

TRAVIS: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.

MATT: “Lord Grog.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: “Lord of?”

TRAVIS: The Vales of Strongjaw.

MATT: “I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out, please?”

TRAVIS: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring and can I pry the metal keyring– is it like one solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe bend it open?

MATT: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been looped twice, but it has been– the iron itself has been bent around itself to make it nice and tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a strength check.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor twitch of your muscles it just bends open.

TRAVIS: Can I take half the keys and give them to Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would you try these keys and see if his cell will open? Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.

MATT: “Right. I will, I will.” She rushes off and starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in the distance her making her way through the keys as–

TRAVIS: I take the other half and start trying to get Da– what was his name?

MATT: Old Davin.

TRAVIS: Old, I like old.

LAURA: Have we met Old Davin?

MATT: You have not met Old Davin, no.

TRAVIS: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here for?

MATT: “Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up in here, everyone started screaming and running away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and they did, ran away, they never came back. Some packed fire, but not a problem now.” And yes, the one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other one glances around, that one's completely stuck in a forward position.

TRAVIS: Is that magic?

MATT: “I mean, certainly gets the ladies.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, it does.

MATT: “But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to not mess with your people.”

TRAVIS: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they do make you look very young.

MATT: “Much worse, say I.”

TRAVIS: Now if we let you out of here, right, which we're actually in the process of doing, what is your weapon of choice?

MATT: “Oh, oh.” And he thinks to himself for a moment. “I would have to say my weapon of choice would be Bloodvine ale. Aye.”

TRAVIS: Bloodvine ale?

MATT: “Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my favorite.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, my– He's a dwarf, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the beard. Like, to fight with, right?

MATT: “Oh, that kills, eh?”

TRAVIS: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.

MATT: “Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so if you got something pointy and prickling I can spear 'em with the best of them.”

TRAVIS: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's a two-handed weapon.

MATT: “Ah, that's not my preference.”

TRAVIS: I do also have one regular, just a regular longsword. About the best I have.

MATT: “Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a longsword.”

TRAVIS: All right, so. Have I got the door open yet?

MATT: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward pause and now you're like, don't have any more conversation. But you still have to finish the– about a minute later, he's sitting there going, “Come on, come on, come on.” Eventually– tink!– it opens up. “Yes!” And he pushes it open as you pull it open.

TRAVIS: Before I give you this sword–

MATT: “Aye?”

TRAVIS: –are you up for the fight of your life?

MATT: “Yes?”

TRAVIS: Can I insight check him?

MATT: Yes, you may.

TRAVIS: This is going to go really well. Eight! Nine!

LIAM: Go Tarv, go Tarv.

MATT: He seems a little–

SAM: Scottish.

(laughter)

MATT: He seems a little malnourished, and a little confused.

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.

TRAVIS: Look, your expression says a lot. What if I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened that sword some more, would you like to fight for some glory come the morrow?

MATT: “Sure. Why not?”

TRAVIS: That's what I thought. If you would go join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go have a meeting, because there's going to be a big feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.

MATT: “Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye. Where's it happening?”

TRAVIS: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret location, TBD.

MATT: “Right, right. I'll wait for you.” And he walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off toward Amelia.

TRAVIS: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?

MATT: At this point, yeah, Noja has stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on her, you see he's actually having a hard time standing and she's helping support him, even though she's having a hard time standing.

(Skype noise)

MATT: There goes Taliesin.

TRAVIS: Man, I know a lot of people that are going to be really, really happy to see you.

MATT: “Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see these people, anybody really, that're not the inside of this blasted prison.” (coughs)

(Skype rings)

LIAM: Oh, get him, get him!

LAURA: Quick, answer it!

LIAM: Stupid tinkerer.

SAM: I'm trying, I'm trying!

LIAM: Percival and his technology.

MATT: There we go. Welcome back.

LAURA: Hi Percy.

TALIESIN: Hi.

TRAVIS: Could I ask you a question? So I have this new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong and I've known about it for years, there's nothing, like, funny about– Actually, if I give this to you, would you just tell me if you, like, hear anything?

MATT: “Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw me in here.”

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: “If we could find that, maybe I can help you.”

TRAVIS: That makes sense.

MATT: “Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend, sorry.”

TRAVIS: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot and I'm like, “All right, mate. Last chance. Why should I let you out?”

MATT: “Because I can be a good friend and help you out. I can get you money and women and travel anywhere you wish.”

TRAVIS: I've done all three of those things more than most men do in three lifetimes.

MATT: “And you can have a fourth! Please, just let me out of here.”

TRAVIS: I'm thinking of a number between one and three.

SAM: He's not.

MATT: “Two.”

TRAVIS: Shit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's like only one of a couple that I know. All right. You get to come out.

MATT: “Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry.”

TRAVIS: Can I insight check if he's a man of his word?

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.

MATT: Three. Seems legit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You have a face that is truly trustworthy. And I start looking for the key to his cell.

MATT: Okay. At this point, you've run through the ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a bit. “All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be off.” And he charges up next to Noja and then breezes past them and you guys all exit the outside of the Iron Stocks.

LAURA: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's book.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a location where your spellbook was last? (belches)

MATT: “They took it from me when they arrested me. I don't know where they would have put it.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back towards where I guess everybody last was.

MATT: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, “I do have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all of my materials, but that would be back at my shop if we ever have a chance to stop by.”

TRAVIS: Well, we could go there now if you'd like.

MATT: “Certainly.”

TRAVIS: How far is it from here? I forget, it's been a few years.

MATT: “Oh, it's about– just due east of where the temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way.”

TRAVIS: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I say, can anybody hear me?

SAM: Can we?

MATT: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too far. Whoever's–

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: What's up, Grog?

TRAVIS: Right, so. What if I told you I found somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?

LIAM: You found Dabney Coleman?

LAURA: Dabdrist Cojo?

TRAVIS: It's Abjurist Noja.

ALL: Oh!

MARISHA: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're like really important.

MARISHA: Yeah, we know a lot of people.

TRAVIS: So I'm going to take him to find his spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great–

TALIESIN: I don't recall this person.

TRAVIS: You don't?

MARISHA: Weren't you with us, Percy?

MATT: Yeah, Percy met him.

TALIESIN: Was I?

MARISHA: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at the first Winter's Crest festival?

TALIESIN: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.

MARISHA: Yeah, he's very nice.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are you all good?

MARISHA: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.

LIAM: Keyleth, where are you right now?

MARISHA: Heading northeast towards, northwest, northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in the sky right now. Northwest.

LAURA: Are you with us, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Pike's with us.

ASHLEY: I'm done attuning?

MATT: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or so, half an hour to an hour.

ASHLEY: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging out.

LAURA: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear some stuff?

ASHLEY: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you, I'm so strong.

SAM: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you need some help.

TRAVIS: Yes. The cube is always welcome.

LIAM: My. Goodness. Gracious.

TRAVIS: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay. Um.

LIAM: A what?

TRAVIS: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I tell him where we are?

MATT: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and eventually he'll find his way there.

TRAVIS: I'm over by this thing balalalala.

SAM: Excellent description, I'm on my way.

MATT: (laughs) And you've been to the town before, you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you know the basics around. So you manage to meet up with these fellas and you make your way northward into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.

MARISHA: Oh, shit. Really?

MATT: He walks up and the door's open and looks inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of this place has been picked clean.

MARISHA: Ah, son of a fucking– looters!

SAM: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or secret safes where you kept the good stuff?

MATT: “Well. Follow me.” And he heads towards the back of the shop, heads into a room in the side which contains his bed and his personal setup. That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the lock's still hanging as part of the cdoor ontraption as the actual door was just kicked inward and the wood splintered and left open. He steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out. There is a singular book, where he pulls it out and sighs, blows dust off it. “Ah, this is a bit rudimentary for what I require, but it's something, it's better than nothing.” Puts it aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or, you know, raiding the room and gets out of his prison robes and puts them over that to just go ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs) “I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop that still remains.” Steps around the way. Oof. All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears to have been taken or broken.

LAURA: Search around, help him search!

TRAVIS: Yeah, is there anything we can help you find that you're looking for?

MATT: “Anything intact, really.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials, or–

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Better. 17.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials that were part of a display set that has been tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained in these vials, like corks have been left open, glass and crystal have been shattered, and the contents had just stained the floor and dried over time into little sticky pools of different colors. You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid that's streaked with black swirls, and there is one that it's like a clear liquid that has a– the liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are the two that you find.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Yellow with black swirls, and then a clear potion that–

SAM: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to clear this town so that you can once again live here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?

MATT: “You've done me great service by getting me out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take these with you for now. I guess I have to start from scratch…”

SAM: Do you know what they are?

MATT: “Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.” And he takes the vials and looks at them. “Ah, this is a Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller size.”

SAM: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.

MATT: “It only lasts for a few hours, depending, the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you smaller. This other one, this vial contains a liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will increase your metabolism for a short time, the world around you seems to slow, it's quite effective.”

SAM: Thank you so, so much.

TRAVIS: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this shrinking potion work, like, how small does something get?

MATT: “Pretty small. Like, if on your size–” And he makes a shape of about that big.

SAM: So teeny-tiny.

MATT: “For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his size.”

TRAVIS: That would be the best thing ever. Now that you've found– I'm sorry, go ahead.

SAM: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know anywhere also around here where we might pick up some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?

MATT: “Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies.”

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: Should've took those from the prison.

MATT: “I mean, check a general goods store, perhaps?”

SAM: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me go get those.

MATT: So here are your potions.

TRAVIS: That book that you got, it's not your favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?

MATT: “No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish me to inspect that weapon for you?”

TRAVIS: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that before, but the last one I had talked to me.

MATT: “That's… unsettling. That's very unsettling.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, among other things.

MATT: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at the door, they've picked through things and they're finding bits of broken glass and over time they can't find anything else. He takes the hour to rest and regains, after some quick preparation, the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the axe, holds it for a moment, chants some incantation that you don't understand. There's a brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples. As it fades, he goes, “Hm. Well, if what you worry about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely a tool, and a powerful one at that.” And he begins to tell you what it does, which is exactly what you already know after attunement.

TRAVIS: No long card coming? (laughs)

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you are as wise as you are. Old.

MARISHA: Old? (laughs)

MATT: “I'm only 48, but thank you.”

TRAVIS: That's lost on me. Do you need anything else?

SAM: Oh, oi, oi, I was just– I'm enthralled by these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm enthralled and so happy that we met you again and all that. I totally remembered who you were.

(laughter)

MATT: “It's good to see that you're all doing fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe. I'll pick up what pieces I can.”

SAM: Should you get– should we tell him to get out of the city or fight with us?

TRAVIS: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what is beset upon this city, right? The horrible calamity that's coming?

MATT: “I saw the dragon tear through, yes.”

SAM: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would you have any interest in aiding us in this fight, or are you past the point of putting up a brave battle?

MATT: And you see him standing there, even just standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a bit, and he goes, “I'm afraid I wouldn't be of much aid at this moment without my proper spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my disposal.” And he sifts through a few pages and he seems to– the book looks like it's pretty old, like probably his training manual when he first began to study as a practitioner of the magical arts. “I don't know how much use I'd be, unfortunately.”

TRAVIS: The day's still young. What say we give, like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books, and then if you can't find it and you can lend no aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself safely on your way?

MATT: “All right. All right, fair enough. Well come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed interior of that prison.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing else better to do, they begin to aid you for a bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the possibility of going and checking in on the farmsteads on the outside of town.

MARISHA: Yeah. About that.

MATT: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.

MARISHA: Yeah, figured that much.

MATT: He has peaced.

TRAVIS: He left.

MATT: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you start deciding what to do, and you look around and he's just gone.

SAM: I thought you had him.

TRAVIS: I thought you had him. I clearly said when you came up, watch the guy with the black feet. What'd you do?

SAM: I was watching you, you have disgusting black feet. You walk around barefoot, you're disgusting.

TRAVIS: I really can't argue with that.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me. I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the prison, not to take away from everything else, and maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some broken bars?

MATT: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more investigation check, this'll signify the next few hours of looking for the things you want.

LAURA: Oh god, roll really good.

SAM: 22.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: Between the two of you, working into and past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot at their disposal. They have a queue of chains that are used of various lengths, some of them may have to be put together to make the length of which you're looking for, but between ramshackle manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to opening gates and used to seal elements of the subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of the evening, manage to find partially destroyed remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in, a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of these–

TRAVIS: I am sorry.

MATT: “Ah, it's all right, there are some here that are of use to me. And if I can be of any assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a distance– How big is this dragon, you said?”

TRAVIS: Oh, it's like seven feet.

MATT: “Oh, well then I can definitely be of help there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself best I can.”

TRAVIS: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on the outsides with those that are not, you know, can't take a good walloping.

SAM: Do you have any healing potions or anything, or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?

MATT: “That's not my specialty, I fear, and the potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards of my humble shop.”

TRAVIS: Not that I would understand, but could you tell us what your specialty is?

MATT: “Abjuration, of course. That's the school of magic of which my–” (laughs)

SAM: I'm familiar with that.

TRAVIS: Abjur–yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that means.

LIAM: Like Claymation.

TRAVIS: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of puppets.

SAM: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to put the pieces of your place back together.

MATT: “I will. Come to me when the time is ready to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm happy to help.”

SAM: Good night.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a part of the feast.

SAM: Oh. All right.

TRAVIS: We'll come get you later tonight.

MATT: “All right.”

LIAM: I'm going to track down the women after talking to them over the earring.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight of them, can I talk to you for a minute?

MARISHA: Sure.

LIAM: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.

LAURA: She's super busy, brother!

LIAM: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.

LAURA: So busy.

LIAM: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to–

(Skype noise)

SAM: God dammit.

LIAM: What's that sound?

MARISHA: So many noises happening.

LIAM: You're going to be doing a lot more damage than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like you're probably going to be too busy to be using Fassbender–

MARISHA: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel like you might–

LIAM: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.

MARISHA: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about that.

LAURA: (gagging)

LIAM: So it just goes on the head, then how does it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I think it or what do I do?

MARISHA: So you give it a command, it takes your full concentration to give it a command, and then once you do that it will enact that plan until it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.

LIAM: All right.

MARISHA: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell, just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.

LIAM: Okay. Do I say like, slow?

MARISHA: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I kept talking to him like it was a person and I don't think that's necessarily the way to go.

LIAM: Maybe I'll prac– where did you park him?

MARISHA: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.

LIAM: Oh.

LAURA: Is that still there?

SAM: Yes?

MATT: Well, based on the time that spell was cast, the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in the mansion have been jettisoned from the doorway.

LAURA: Including your grandad!

MARISHA: So he's in Wilhand's house, with Wilhand.

LIAM: Great, well, I'll take that.

MARISHA: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over him right now, actually.

SAM: It might have destroyed the house.

MARISHA: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house. Yeah.

LIAM: Kiki.

MARISHA: Yes?

(Skype noises)

LIAM: What is that?

MARISHA: This is the weirdest field.

(Taliesin makes noises on Skype)

(laughter)

LIAM: Percy. Tinker quietly, please.

(Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype)

(laughter)

LIAM: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.

TALIESIN: I can't even see you guys, are you like?

LAURA: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not–

LIAM: Okay, really quickly.

LAURA: Okay. Well, at least he started.

MARISHA: Yes? This seems to happen all the time, every time we try to talk to each other. I don't think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard to have a conversa–

TALIESIN: Hi.

MATT: Continue, please.

LIAM: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a minute, all right?

MARISHA: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.

LIAM: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But.

And I take her by the hand.

LIAM: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to you. And I'm sorry.

MARISHA: What are you talking about?

LIAM: In your room, in your room. Me leaving wasn't–

MARISHA: When you left me, right–

LIAM: –wasn't fair.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.

LIAM: That's it. I'm sorry.

MARISHA: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and put any more undue stress, that's not what I want–

LIAM: This is awful, all of it is awful.

MARISHA: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know you've been struggling. I know you feel like you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know, as druids, I was raised to have an interesting perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe that just because you're immortal doesn't make you infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of their virtues and what they represent, or they can be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just because some self-proclaimed person or deity decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that they have to have control over me. Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean, for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not respect the gods any more than I respect the living people who are standing beside me at this moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the fact that it seems that, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to employ their services. Looks like we're going to have to be working with them in some way or another, myself included, if we are going to overcome this. So maybe you should start rethinking the way you look at your relationship to the Raven Queen. Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the world and we retire and some other young prodigies come forward to save the world again, then we can thank her for her services and move on. I don't think we'll always need her. I don't think you will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one true thing that gives these gods their power are their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up with the ladies.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun? Lots of making out there?

MARISHA: Vax. Vex. Vex.

LAURA: I understand you have him on your mind. You can't get our names straight.

MARISHA: You know, I was talking to him, so– Hey. I love you a whole lot.

LAURA: Do you still think you're talking to my brother?

MARISHA: I know who I'm talking to.

LIAM: Really similar.

SAM: She's the ranger.

ASHLEY: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?

MARISHA: Who? Vax? Oh.

ASHLEY: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?

LAURA: I turn around and see him. Is he just standing there?

MATT: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.

LAURA: Um, hey.

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to help us, or are you just standing in the middle–

LIAM: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?

LAURA: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a trench? Set a trap?

LIAM: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can use a shovel.

LAURA: What time is it? We haven't even started digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?

MARISHA: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine. What time is it?

MATT: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks for me, if you don't mind.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: The first one is using your intelligence modifier.

TALIESIN: That's intelligence modifier plus proficiency bonus plus tinkering?

MATT: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with tinkering.

TALIESIN: Yeah. 24.

(cheering)

MATT: All right, so, initial designs and describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better term, that are helping you develop these springs, you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the proper materials, the process, and they seem to acknowledge and understand what you're trying to do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is going to be with your dexterity modifier.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, baby.

SAM: No one can help him on these things?

LAURA: We're not there.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: You spend the better part of the day helping them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it, pulling it into the springs that are required. You complete one, you get partway through the second one. Make a final check if you don't mind.

TRAVIS: With dex?

MATT: This is also with dex, yeah.

LAURA: Come on.

TALIESIN: That's 23.

MATT: 23?

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So yeah, that's right, 23.

MATT: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or 11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work, sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the three of you, forcing the furnace to work overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and passing out. However, you do manage to complete the springs. They seem to be functional, the structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is. You do take a point of exhaustion through the work that will consist throughout the next day.

TALIESIN: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion do?

MATT: Disadvantage on ability checks. So, essentially, any skill checks or ability checks you make– not attacks or saves, but ability checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at disadvantage.

LAURA: Did he work all the way through the night?

MATT: No, this is just the physical activity involved in getting it done in that short period of time.

TALIESIN: Just double-checking, because I have no brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier, proficiency bonus?

MATT: What?

TALIESIN: Just because I have no brain, dex modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: Okay, good.

MATT: You're good, you got it. As you guys find yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a break for the rest of you and come back here.

LAURA: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!

SAM: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.

MATT: We'll come back in. We need a pee break. Quick one, guys.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing for this, what else do you guys need to do before the morrow?

MARISHA: I dig a trench.

MATT: All right, so you dig the trench.

MARISHA: I want it to be far away to where there's a tunnel and then make a circle around it.

LAURA: We need to get Fassbender into the middle where the treasure's going to be.

LIAM: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on his back, face-up.

MARISHA: We have to do some stage-setting here. We have to set the scene.

MATT: Okay, as a note, when you return to Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't fit in that large room and wrecked part of the staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving, Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time, since left there for the evening before, takes a step and the area where the crack that you sealed earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect in the healing, but being a construct, it does not actually heal damage from it.

MARISHA: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this time to do–

SAM: You're not there.

MARISHA: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender. Never mind.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where Keyleth is.

MATT: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out to that area of the town. As night has come now, the sun has gone, you guys are working in darkness. What are you guys doing?

ASHLEY: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want to make it real special.

LAURA: You're speaking my language.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.

LAURA: How many arrows can you do that do?

ASHLEY: I think just one.

SAM: Matt's checking his e-mail.

MATT: Within an object that can be closed, such as a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it would have to be on something that, like a doorway or–

MARISHA: Like a treasure chest? If– can you cast it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.

ASHLEY: I thought it was going to work. It was going to be real cool.

MATT: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, so you could place this in theory on the ground near where the treasure's being left and give it the specific trigger for it to go off.

LAURA: It can be maybe in a chest above Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon lifts it up.

MARISHA: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of Warding?

MATT: You can choose explosive runes–

ASHLEY: An explosive rune.

MARISHA: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.

MATT: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or lightning or thunder damage. Your choice. Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around it.

LAURA: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know what you could do? You could make a trigger if he gets a certain height off the ground, and that way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it triggers and he's the only thing that would get affected.

MATT: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's near the glyph would be affected.

ASHLEY: So can we hide it in the loot?

MATT: You can, you can definitely choose some sort of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot if you want to.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll find something in the loot, some little chest or something that I can put it in.

MATT: Okay, and what's your trigger?

ASHLEY: When he gets– if he starts to fly away.

MATT: Okay. So if a creature– the trigger would be, if a creature–

LIAM: Pulls the glyph up?

MATT: That's up to you. What would you like the trigger to be?

SAM: Specific.

ASHLEY: If he removes something on top of it. But also if he grabbed it.

LAURA: What if it gets above a certain feet in the air? Can it trigger then?

MATT: You can say if a creature flies above it at a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you that, yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay. So if it flies–

MATT: If it flies 20 feet above it?

LAURA: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in the air.

MATT: We'll make that one of the triggers if you want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted by a creature–

ASHLEY: So it can't be if he just touches it?

MATT: You could do that, yeah.

LAURA: But it might be better if he lands and then we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he tries to leave it explodes.

ASHLEY: If he tries to leave.

MATT: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the ground, it triggers.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just moved.

MATT: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What type of damage?

ASHLEY: I want to do cold damage.

LAURA: Would I know, is a black dragon– does it have any weaknesses?

MATT: You would know, with your knowledge and specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.

LAURA: It has no weaknesses.

MATT: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But that is the only real information you have.

TRAVIS: Make it acid damage.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I'm going to go cold damage.

MATT: Cold damage. All righty.

LAURA: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any damage?

MARISHA: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds of damage.

LIAM: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.

MATT: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to 7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?

ASHLEY: 17.

MARISHA: If we lose Fassbender–

LIAM: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If not, good cause.

LAURA: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so that he can be attached to the ground?

MARISHA: I can. Can I do that? Right now?

MATT: Using what?

MARISHA: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape spell, and then I want to open and almost make him a chain harness that's embedded into his waist? And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?

MATT: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever you want to do, it happens immediately. So, essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it you could then go ahead and have the chains–

LAURA: Ready to go (squishing).

MATT: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal. How many chains are you embedding in it?

LAURA: Two big ones?

MATT: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the heaviest chains that you can find, which you probably got from the prison.

MARISHA: All right, well, how about this? Vax, Vex, grab a chain.

LAURA: All right. These are heavy.

MARISHA: Okay, ready? On my go.

LAURA: Wait, where are we putting it?

MARISHA: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen. Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just–

LAURA: You take left. I'll take right.

LIAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Ready?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest wound opens up into these two big cavities. You take the chain edges and put them inside as they seal around them. There's now these two giant, heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.

LAURA: Where do we attach these chains to? The ground?

LIAM: One to the ground. Put the other one in a goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You can find some metallic hooks just through general construction materials in the town if you want to.

LIAM: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon, so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the ground.

LAURA: Just ten.

LIAM: Yeah?

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.

MATT: About how long?

LIAM: Ten feet into the ground, which we can–

MARISHA: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do another Stone Shape spell into the ground.

MATT: You have to go around and find an area, because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an area that has actual stonework in the ground. Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go ahead and roll a survival check.

MARISHA: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.

MATT: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60 feet out from where the drop point is, is the nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15 feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.

MARISHA: Negative. I will cast–

LAURA: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?

LIAM: But he's going to go up like a kite now because it's going 60 feet all the way over there, where stone is.

MARISHA: I'm going to burn– I did that earlier, but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to do Transmute Rock again?

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So you said there was dirt? All right, let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So we dig a hole ten feet down.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up. Transmute. Turn it into rock.

MATT: Okay, and with that, the earth– Okay, what is the radius of that one there? Let me see.

SAM: We have to cover this up.

LIAM: With dirt?

MARISHA: And treasure.

MATT: Transmute Rock– 40-foot cube. You turn that into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone. All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there, stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.

LIAM: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?

MARISHA: Can I take my last little bit of Stone Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax drew on–

MATT: Stone Shape does not–

MARISHA: And make the mustache permanent that he drew on with charcoal?

MATT: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the stars above, your hand reaches across the face, and with that suddenly the–

MARISHA: I like this, I want to keep it, there we go.

MATT: –the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes into the face, carved permanently to his face.

MARISHA: You look much better now, Fassbender. High-five.

LIAM: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.

MARISHA: Yeah! Isn't that cool?

MATT: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.

MARISHA: It's okay. It's cool.

LIAM: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust.

(laughter)

SAM: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?

MATT: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a ladder.

SAM: Got it.

MATT: It's got a little button on the side.

SAM: Button on the side? Cool.

TALIESIN: Like a Tron lightbike.

SAM: I love it.

LAURA: When are we going to set the trap that Percy made?

LIAM: As soon as he finishes it.

MARISHA: Yeah, we should set the stage.

TALIESIN: In theory, it has to be laid down underneath all the treasure so that it just is nothing, and then we put everything on top, and then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit again.

MARISHA: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap whenever you are.

TALIESIN: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.

MARISHA: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going to just go and circle while they're setting the trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make sure we're not being watched.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

LAURA: Why this creepy music?

SAM: It's random, guys.

ASHLEY: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?

LAURA: Because the fucking dragon's going to see us right now.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16?

MARISHA: No, sorry. 15.

MATT: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch. So far, nothing seems to have caught your attention that's out of the ordinary. About half an hour passes before you see a group of civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts this large ramshackle construction made of support beams from houses, metal joints that were used as basic construction elements, as well as these large metallic springs on multiple sides with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys bring it over. You clear out the area.

LAURA: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.

MATT: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?

LAURA: Right? He can't lay under the trap.

SAM: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?

MARISHA: Let's just keep him right off to the side because if that trap triggers–

TALIESIN: In theory, he should be able to fit right at the sides of it, because it's got an armature spring system. As long as you're not in the way of the armatures, you should be fine.

MATT: So you set it up and away, laying the sides down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust, and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to the best of your ability. Who is in charge of camouflaging this piece?

MARISHA: Go ranger, go ranger, go!

MATT: Make a survival check.

TRAVIS: “Which dice will I use? There's no way to choose.”

SAM: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?

LAURA: You want to sing me some inspiration?

SAM: Can I inspire her?

MATT: Sure, what do you want to sing?

SAM: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I hope you– also do–

(laughter)

LAURA: 31.

MATT: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage, hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it hasn't been recently disturbed–

LAURA: Little Dust of Tracelessness.

MATT: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and smooth out any of the ripples of any possible passage that has come through. Fassbender has been–

(crash)

MATT: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to the point where he's pretty much flush with the ground of where it is. Contraption set, the objects placed back inside with some of the barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood, the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you complete it without an issue.

LAURA: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I take some of the gold that we have and–

MATT: Place it onto it?

LAURA: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold over top of rocks.

ASHLEY: If it's a chest, can we put some coins sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?

MATT: You can do that. It does cost you about 200 gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark off that from your personal gold supply.

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LAURA: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?

MATT: Umbrasyl, yes.

LAURA: But it doesn't quite have the same effect without his head. Do you still have that head? In fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it in my bag of cold?

MATT: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to put in there?

LAURA: Would that be all right with you, Grog?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?

TRAVIS: I want that head.

LAURA: I don't have the head. I only have the gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.

TRAVIS: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I don't have the head.

LAURA: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.

TRAVIS: I don't have the head.

LAURA: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe– you'll be able to get it back, because we're going to kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.

TRAVIS: What's the head for?

LAURA: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed Kevdak to the dragon.

TRAVIS: What if you sacrifice me?

LAURA: Well, what?

TRAVIS: Yeah, use me as bait!

SAM: We'd have to chop off your head.

MARISHA: No, we could just tie him to a chair or something.

TRAVIS: Or I could just put my hands behind my back.

MARISHA: Make it look– wrap some rope to make it look like it's loosely tied.

SAM: What if he bites and kills you?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't know, but it's better live bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.

SAM: Nope.

TRAVIS: Pretty sure that's true.

SAM: Nope.

LAURA: Do you want to be bait, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Does that sound fun to you, or–

LAURA: There's exploding things around here. Are you sure you want to be in this area?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: No, you don't.

TRAVIS: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the head of Kevdak.

MARISHA: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!

SAM: Wow, that's a powerful look.

TRAVIS: I want it back.

ASHLEY: You'll get it back.

TRAVIS: You better promise.

LAURA: I promise.

TRAVIS: All right. You can have it.

ASHLEY: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.

TRAVIS: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever wear a bow!

ASHLEY: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.

TRAVIS: I take the skull and roll it to her feet. It's still got flesh on it, right?

MATT: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the trigger mechanism?

TALIESIN: The trigger mechanism is any weight shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it, doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate weight shift in the platform, where the booty is, it just goes snap.

MATT: Okay. So very carefully and very precariously, you all have set this trap as the final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there anything else you would like to add with this very sensitive large situation being finished?

SAM: Where are we hiding?

LAURA: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?

MARISHA: It depends on where you want to hide, I guess. (caws)

TALIESIN: As long as I'm within range for my guns, I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.

MARISHA: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80 feet? Or 60?

MATT: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree materials? Thank you.

SAM: You know, that box of trees that you have.

ASHLEY: Are we near any structures or any houses?

MATT: No, this is outside of town. It's an open field other than a handful of trees. Just to give you guys perspective right here, this is the setup right now. This is the central area where most things have been dropped. There are pieces here. If you want to put it into perspective here, the glyph lies over in this area. Most of the treasure's been placed in that area. The trap we'll say is set about in that area, with the central piece being the triggering mechanism.

LAURA: And the trench is all around that?

MATT: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now you say the trenches, are you saying they're covered or not?

LAURA: They are covered.

MATT: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches. Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would you like it to be?

MARISHA: Far away.

LAURA: There, on the other side?

MATT: This side over here?

TRAVIS: Make it 50 feet at the most.

MARISHA: I want it to be more than that, I'd like it to be 100 feet away.

TRAVIS: You want them to get there in one turn, right?

LAURA: You want to be able to get there right away on surprise attack, spring right out of the ground as soon as that trap triggers.

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches should hear it.

MATT: Right, but it's more about the proximity of the exit to the trenches.

MARISHA: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a circle that I've carved around it. And then there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and there's an entrance that they can walk in and get into their places.

MATT: You want them to just burst out, then?

MARISHA: I've made it really thin like I did before, carved it nice and thin–

MATT: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.

MARISHA: I don't know what that means.

TRAVIS: I thought we were all filing out of one hole.

MATT: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The intent is for them to push up and out?

MARISHA: Unless you guys think it would be better?

LAURA: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.

TRAVIS: I was confused.

MARISHA: It's going to be cool, like night of the living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground! In my mind, it's really awesome.

SAM: In your mind, so many things–

MARISHA: So many things.

MATT: There we go. All right. We have entrenched areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's the last things you need to prepare before the evening is done?

LAURA: We need to have a feast.

SAM: Heroes' Feast.

LIAM: I have a couple of questions. One, so I asked this outside but I just want to make sure. It says in the rogue section that longsword is something that I'm proficient in, but there's a rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm proficient in longswords.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of– no surprise, motherfucker?

MATT: The attack must use a finesse or ranged weapon.

LIAM: So it's not a finesse weapon.

MATT: A longsword, I believe, is strength.

TALIESIN: No, wait! This longsword was being used as a finesse weapon.

MARISHA: It has been used?

TALIESIN: We had this discussion at one point. We decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon. Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.

SAM: Aloha.

TALIESIN: Aloha!

LIAM: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse weapon.

TALIESIN: There's a beautiful view out this window.

LIAM: Just want to know in advance.

MATT: I would say– stretching it thin. We had agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm trying to recall?

TALIESIN: This happened when we were doing sword tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could actually use a sword. And what that would be like. Because we were having the conversation about whether you should take strength with the sword. I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword, but– I don't remember if that was specifically for me, or–

SAM: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.

MATT: I would say because it is part of the intent of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise when it comes to using the sneak attack ability. It would not be able to sneak attack.

LIAM: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it, and I'm going to start attuning– Can you use this?

LAURA: What is it?

LIAM: Circlet. Would you be able to control Fassbender?

LAURA: Instead of shooting arrows?

LIAM: No, Keyleth said you just say “zap,” and he just does it until you tell him to stop.

MARISHA: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it takes–

MATT: Well, it takes an action to–

MARISHA: I'm trying to speak in character, all right?

TALIESIN: What do your Boots of Haste do and what does your cloak do, out of curiosity?

LIAM: I want to see how much I'm giving up here. Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be able to do one more thing when you're doing things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of Haste.

SAM: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've given the potion of reduction? Reducement?

MATT: Diminution.

SAM: Diminution? To good old Vax here.

LIAM: It's funny, because part of my idea was to go in with you. But I know that you have to do it to folk of your own size, but if I were little Vax, I could go with you.

LAURA: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?

MARISHA: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as beneficial for us to have Haste.

LIAM: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going to be able to concentrate on that.

MARISHA: Well, depends on when you're going in.

SAM: You don't know. Give it to Vex.

MARISHA: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that until that dragon is dead. He will just continue without you having to focus on him.

LIAM: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to go into the belly of the beast with my little buddy here.

MARISHA: That's so trite.

SAM: We were born to do this!

LAURA: Does it have to be attuned?

MATT: Yes. So if you already have three objects attuned, you'd have to take one off.

LAURA: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.

LIAM: All right, I'll wear it.

TALIESIN: I could, definitely. If you could take the Haste Potion then I might take the boots, because speed would not be a terrible thing for me to have because then I get to shoot more.

LIAM: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard to hit.

LAURA: That's good.

LIAM: And the haste will Haste you.

TALIESIN: What does the cloak do, again?

MATT: Disadvantage on physical attacks against you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit, it fails to work for a turn.

TRAVIS: I might take that.

MARISHA: The cloak?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the belt off.

SAM: You're going to lose your beard!

TRAVIS: You don't know that! This shit's in there tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer Cloak on.

MATT: You will be losing 26 hit points to your maximum hit points.

TRAVIS: What? Wait! Really?

MATT: Your constitution– or no, it's plus two, so you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.

TRAVIS: Never mind, no. Nope.

MATT: Because your constitution will go down without it.

LAURA: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too, and put something on–

MARISHA: What do those do?

LAURA: They just give me a plus two to damage rolls.

LIAM: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the boots, you can click them and you've got more movement.

LAURA: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting the boots on.

MATT: Boots of Haste?

MARISHA: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my goodie but my oldie circlet on.

SAM: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!

MATT: You guys prepare for the evening. You make your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?

SAM: Isn't there a central place that we killed Kevdak at?

MARISHA: The mayor's? The big mansion.

SAM: Whatever that place is called.

MARISHA: The Margrave's house.

MATT: All right. So you find your way to the Margrave's town square there, you can see a number of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around small fires in the center of the cobblestone. They're all war-painted up, you can see there's smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12 creatures as part of it.

MARISHA: I can also do a feast if I cast it at seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep, so it doesn't matter.

SAM: You're going to do two feasts?

MARISHA: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes' Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror his finest warriors, his druids–

LAURA: And Abjurist Noja.

TRAVIS: And Old Davin.

LIAM: And his wife.

MARISHA: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife, his druids that he mentioned; there were like two to three druids?

ASHLEY: Are there any magic-users in the room?

TRAVIS: Magic-users or clerics.

MARISHA: Magic-users or clerics.

TRAVIS: Abjurist and Old Davin included.

MATT: So. That being the case. You guys have your meals in the center of town, summoned forth a grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon your meal. The taste is great but you're all distracted as the energies of the divine enchantment of these food items fill your body and steel you against the coming fear, there is still the concentration in your eye as you all look off listlessly in the distance as you finish your food. It's now just pushing past midnight.

LAURA: We need to sleep.

MATT: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you wish to do before you go to bed?

MARISHA: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?

TRAVIS: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do something that gave us an extra amount of hit points before Kevdak?

ASHLEY: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on somebody.

LAURA: Will that last for 24 hours?

ASHLEY: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it tomorrow.

MATT: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives the additional hit points he just mentioned.

SAM: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit points?

MARISHA: 2d10, and you're immune to poison, fear–

MATT: As temporary hit points, should mention that too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit points. You want to roll, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh, that's not bad. 14.

TRAVIS: 14? That's not bad.

MARISHA: 14 from me.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group, the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit points come off first before anything else.

TRAVIS: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just in case he comes in the morning, and if he doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?

ASHLEY: Say it one more time.

TRAVIS: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose it anyway, but you rest up again.

ASHLEY: Do you want to have it for the night?

TRAVIS: Yeah, just in case he comes in the morning.

ASHLEY: Sure.

MARISHA: Well, when do we want to be at the trap? Dawn?

SAM: At dawn!

LIAM: Just before.

TRAVIS: Yeah, before first light.

LAURA: He comes normally around noon, he said.

MARISHA: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.

ASHLEY: So each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by five for the duration.

MATT: For each level of the spell, so if you cast it at higher levels, it's more.

TRAVIS: How high do you want to cast it?

ASHLEY: Cast it at– fifth is the highest that I have now.

TRAVIS: Rock out. Go for it.

ASHLEY: Yeah, let's do it.

TRAVIS: Five times five?

ASHLEY: That's, yeah.

SAM: You'll lose it when we wake up.

ASHLEY: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?

TRAVIS: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but I lose it–

MATT: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight hours, so.

ASHLEY: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.

MARISHA: What time of year is it?

MATT: It's winter cresting into spring–

MARISHA: Okay, so we have long nights right now.

LAURA: We need to go the fuck to sleep.

MARISHA: So let's sleep for a good six hours?

MATT: Six to eight hours.

LAURA: Set our alarm clocks.

MATT: You run on a pretty consistent schedule, being a ranger.

LIAM: I wait until everyone falls still, and then I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah, you're awake.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm staring at you.

LIAM: I don't know if it's the food you made or the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while. Good night.

LAURA: Did you use your tongues?

TRAVIS: You're asleep.

MARISHA: How does she see everything?

LIAM: She's a witch.

MARISHA: She's a witch?

LIAM: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?

MATT: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of first morning light begins to crawl across the distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal against metal as armor and weapons are gathered. Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without a word being spoken between them.

SAM: I just want to make sure that we're going around, passing out all the chains, attaching little hooks and jabby things and grappling hooks.

LAURA: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on the ground, everybody springs up and–

MATT: Everyone springs up and hooks him.

SAM: If the trigger for that, they're going to be underground–

LAURA: The trap should go (snapping).

SAM: If they hear a big clank, that's go.

LAURA: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.

SAM: Will they know that that's a big clank?

LAURA: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might also be an explosion.

MATT: All right. With that, Zanror, after having this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war room in the front foyer, agrees. “Not to worry. I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide, hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it. Very well.” He puts on the rest of his armor. Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost Taliesin.

SAM: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his trap good.

MATT: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or somewhere.

SAM: Let's do this.

ASHLEY: Right when I wake up, I am going to try Divine Intervention.

MATT: Right now?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Hold on just a second.

TRAVIS: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.

SAM: Does it last for a while?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

LAURA: You used it before.

ASHLEY: No, it's never worked.

LAURA: Yeah, the guy showed up.

ASHLEY: That's something else.

LAURA: Oh really?

ASHLEY: That wasn't intervention.

LAURA: I thought that was Divine Intervention that made the guy show up.

ASHLEY: It's never worked.

MATT: So Divine Intervention, there are elements of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation. It's one of those things where the effects can range. It can be something that's immediate; it can be something that's more long. Understanding that, acknowledge when would be the good time to use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on what you're requesting, what you're praying for.

ASHLEY: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice, then.

ASHLEY: What do I have–

MATT: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has multiple numbers on it.

ASHLEY: I do. Is this the percentile?

MATT: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?

ASHLEY: What do I need to roll?

MATT: I believe you need to roll under your level. What did you roll?

ASHLEY: I rolled an 80.

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: It never works!

MATT: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries and barriers that keep the gods from directly interfering with this realm are particularly strong this morning. While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth and protection guiding you to victory, there is not more within her strength or sphere of influence she can grant you at this time.

ASHLEY: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.

MATT: What else would you like to do?

ASHLEY: Just go eat.

MATT: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking at about three hours until the dragon's–

MARISHA: Wait, what time is it?

SAM: It's nine.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch, we overslept.

SAM: No, we've been up since dawn.

MARISHA: I thought we were trying to get in places before dawn.

SAM: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.

MARISHA: I hate it when I oversleep.

MATT: All right. The rest of you and the rest of the Herd make your way north. The few people that have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart, stand outside as you all march by, and they all acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the plains between the dotted treed landscape towards the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the tunnel beneath the ground.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MATT: All right. So they are now beneath the area. They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel off to the side that is currently visible and open from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide that tunnel?

MARISHA: Sure.

TRAVIS: I'm going in that tunnel, too.

LIAM: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?

MATT: Grog, you have hidden–

SAM: I don't want to go underground.

LIAM: Are we going in a tree?

SAM: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200 feet away.

ASHLEY: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm going to cast Death Ward on him.

SAM: What's that do?

TRAVIS: If you drop below zero, you come back to one.

MATT: Once.

SAM: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're very worried about me because of our love, but–

MATT: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You are now up in this tree here.

SAM: I don't need it. It jinxes me.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy, acid, onto Vax.

MATT: Vax actually already has resistance to acid because of his armor.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.

LAURA: Thanks.

MATT: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance to acid as long as concentration remains.

MARISHA: I also cast Protection from Energy, resistance to acid, on Grog.

MATT: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.

MARISHA: I'm going to stay in this cluster of trees with Scanlan.

MATT: Scanlan over here, okay.

LAURA: I'm going to be up in a tree.

MATT: You're going to be up in the tree.

SAM: Different tree?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: I don't think we should all be in the same tree, guys.

LAURA: No, I'm going to be in a different tree. Can I use my perception to see how hidden everything is?

MATT: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up in this one over here instead?

LAURA: Yeah, something far.

MATT: There we go. You'll be in this one.

LAURA: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too, at a distance.

MATT: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.

LIAM: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.

MATT: Is Trinket in your necklace?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this happens?

ASHLEY: Oh, yeah. Yes.

SAM: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?

LAURA and MATT: Some people.

LAURA: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the stuff.

MATT: This here?

SAM: I would like to be more than 150–

MATT: About 70-ish feet away is right here where these trees are.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You're about 50-ish feet.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.

MATT: At what level?

ASHLEY: Fourth.

MATT: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.

MARISHA: Additional or temporary?

MATT: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who else?

ASHLEY: Scanlan, again.

MATT: Scanlan, and–?

SAM: Why don't you do it on yourself?

ASHLEY: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on myself. 15?

MATT: Yep, 15.

SAM: Keyleth, can you help me?

MATT: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy with those people? You can cast it multiple times if you have the spell levels for it.

ASHLEY: I'm going to save my spells.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form? For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want to make sure that I know everything I can know in the moment when checked.

LIAM: Can bards inspire themselves?

MATT: No. At higher levels, he can.

MARISHA: Theoretically, I could enhance your ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've already protected from acid against Grog.

SAM: Never mind. I'm fine.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: What does your cloak do? That I put on?

LIAM: Disadvantage on attacking you.

MARISHA: Like, melee?

LIAM: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for the round but resets for the next round.

MARISHA: Only melee, not spells, yeah?

LIAM: That's right.

MATT: So, at this point in time, Kevdak approaches.

SAM: Zanror.

MATT: I did it again. Zanror and two of his goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering placed at its designated spot.

MARISHA: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.

MATT: Any last-minute preparations?

ASHLEY: I'm going to– wait, Grog, where are you?

TRAVIS: I'm down in the tunnel.

ASHLEY: Is that where I am?

MATT: Well, wherever you want to be.

ASHLEY: I want to be in the trenches.

MATT: In the trenches? All right, so you make your way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest of the Herd members.

LAURA: I hide the hole.

MATT: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this spread so everyone knows where they're all hidden currently–

LAURA: Everyone knows they need to not move at all and be completely–

MARISHA: Quiet.

TRAVIS: I'm down over here.

SAM: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.

ASHLEY: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to be a hero.

TRAVIS: I'll throw her out of there if something goes wrong.

LIAM: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.

ASHLEY: They'll see me shining with my shiny armor.

LAURA: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in the trees.

MARISHA: I come over the earpiece in the calm of battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong, rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that can get us out. I feel like I should say something inspiring, but I don't have anything, so–

TRAVIS: How about fuck shit up?

MARISHA: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About two days ago.

MATT: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja, invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath the ground here, off to the side is your good golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in, gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You can hear the gentle bristling of high grasses against themselves. The tension causes the muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles around, past you towards the city. Comes back. Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into the center of this vicinity. As it hits the ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact) As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten, angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity. It woosh– wraps around, you hear the smashing of metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have no visual on what's happened. As soon as that hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody to go ahead and roll initiative.

ASHLEY: Did he move the treasure?

LAURA: Not yet.

LIAM: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.

MARISHA: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.

LIAM: Matt Colville, this is on you.

SAM: It's not you, Liam, it's me.

MARISHA: Fucking shit.

SAM: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine does.

MARISHA: Is yours not good?

SAM: No.

LAURA: What did you roll?

SAM: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win the fight for us.

LIAM: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?

MATT: What does it say for the ability?

SAM: It doesn't matter, Liam.

MATT: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability check. I don't see why it wouldn't.

LIAM: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you. You're the all-seeing eye.

SAM: The feast gives us advantage on all initiative checks, right?

MATT: Ability check or saving throw– technically, you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.

LIAM: (laughs) It was the exact same number!

MATT: You use the Luck point, and your initiative is what it is. Starting at this point in time, everybody–

SAM: It's a fight.

MATT: We have 25 to 20.

LAURA: 22.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled really well.

SAM: Good, we need that.

MATT: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have– Noja. 15 to ten?

LIAM: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded is like 100.

MARISHA: Also big ten, which if you round it twice is like a thousand.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: All right. Ten to five.

SAM: Big five.

MATT: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up the rear, there we go.

LIAM: Gosh, plan B indeed.

MATT: At the top of this surprise round, I need Vex to go first.

LAURA: Am I first?

MARISHA: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.

LAURA: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?

LIAM: You do you!

LAURA: All right. My Boots of Haste have been clicked.

MATT: All right, so you are now hasted. You may now have an additional attack action per turn.

LAURA: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the tree, right?

MATT: Correct, currently. As far as you know. Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.

MATT: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you actually have–

LAURA: Advantage.

MATT: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't see you, so yeah.

LAURA: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is 23.

MATT: 23?

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27 hits.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

LAURA: And 23.

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.

MATT: Herd's up next, and then Grog.

LAURA: 31 on the first arrow.

MATT: 31 damage?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Nice!

LIAM: Seven plus five is 12.

LAURA: 12. Plus nine.

MATT: 21. You're not getting additional sneak attack for the other two hits, by the way.

LAURA: Right, I know. I lost my– 18, I think. 18 was the last one.

MATT: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel attack.

LAURA: That was my first attack.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste it on him?

SAM: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!

LAURA: I have two of them. I've been saving one, but I'm going to use one on him.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: This is still advantage because it's still surprise round, right?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Okay. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

LAURA: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and then– I have a Jelly Belly in my thing– And then that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon arrow.

MATT: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the round, so you have advantage.

LAURA: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for the dragon arrow.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that.

LAURA: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.

MATT: There you go.

SAM: She's going to one-shot the dragon.

LAURA: 6d10. (counting)

SAM: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and Vax making out in the tree behind me?

MATT: They are not.

LIAM: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle of wizz going down my leg right now, man.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.

LAURA: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark is another four. 38 on that attack.

MATT: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying arrow.

LAURA: And then my third attack, I'm going to use the Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100 points of damage in one round.

LIAM: Enjoy those boots.

LAURA: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still hidden?

MATT: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've definitely made yourself known.

LAURA: 20?

MATT: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage on the other ones, but–

LAURA: 20?

MATT: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no effect.

LAURA: Okay. Wow.

MATT: All right. Staying there?

LAURA: I'm going to sink down into the leaves, yes, and try to hide better.

MATT: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a tree.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back. All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim. They can't even get in; there's so many of them.

LAURA: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?

MATT: That's fine.

SAM: Man, what if this was all a trick and they actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to die. It was all a trick! They work for him. They're going to kill us all!

TRAVIS: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get a hold of yourself, man!

MATT: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real strong.

LAURA: Some of them can try to like swing the grapplings around the ankles–

SAM: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.

MATT: I got this, don't worry.

LIAM: Don't piss him off.

MATT: All right. We'll say about eight of them manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest either bounce off or can't find purchase into its hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of them are trying to hold it down. “We got him! We got him!” And they're holding back. The archers all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses, hits.

LIAM: Question. Did we give the chain attached to Fassbender to one of the goliaths?

SAM: No, it's buried in the stone.

LIAM: To the stone, but one has to go on the dragon.

SAM: If that's what we planned, sure.

LIAM: I don't know.

MATT: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.

LIAM: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.

MATT: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the rest of them are just smashing against the hide of Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of damage and eight points of damage. They actually make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I go into a rage, and I would like to run up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two reckless attacks against him.

LIAM: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's street-smart, this guy.

SAM: Intelligence of three.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TRAVIS: That's really good. 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TRAVIS: So, that's 23 with three points of necrotic damage.

MATT: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in or on top of that?

TRAVIS: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.

MATT: 23. All right.

TRAVIS: And then the second one– 22 with one point of necrotic damage.

MATT: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to cut into, but you're making small hacks into it. You can start seeing that damage is possible, though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very hefty, very old beast. All right.

TRAVIS: With my bonus action, could I drink the potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.

MATT: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a rage?

TRAVIS: I believe you're right. Never mind.

MATT: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real fast.

TRAVIS: I think you're right.

MATT: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the dragon, hiding by the treeside.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the dragon.

MATT: All right, Hex on the dragon.

TALIESIN: With a disadvantage to all strength checks.

MATT: Strength ability checks, okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold my turn until the dragon's turn.

MATT: Okay. You're just going to hold until it does something?

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold until it does something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.

MATT: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going to step out from here and is going to attempt to Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction. It fails its saving throw because it is held in there. It is currently considered grappled. It doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll say from this standpoint it can't really move around a lot. It's going to take the damage.

SAM: (laughs) What was that face?

MATT: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning damage.

SAM: That's 8d6.

MATT: At the end of his turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.

TRAVIS: That'll hit.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to reduce the attack?

MATT: If you want to.

SAM: I would like to.

MATT: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam of its tail behind you–

SAM: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce the–

MATT: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not the damage.

SAM: The attack.

MATT: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.

SAM: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one. Ten.

MATT: Ten. 17. What's your AC?

TRAVIS: It's a 20.

MATT: 20. With that, the tail– whack!– slams into the ground. You manage to push out of the way just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.

SAM: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly contest and they said no professionals!

(laughter)

MATT: Just enough of a distraction in the settling dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's less of a surprise round. I use surprise round liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone getting out of it and preparing for the actual assault.

LIAM: It's more of a surprising round.

MATT: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl, very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage on the athletics check to try and break out of the grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is–

SAM: Is that a save?

MATT: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check. However, the strength– (struggling sounds) cannot seem to break free from the grapple of the communal might of all the goliaths there. So that is unhappy.

SAM: Meaning Matt is unhappy.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: And three more dragons.

MARISHA: Why the book?

LAURA: Oh no, what are we looking up?

TRAVIS: What's in the book?

MATT: Nothing's in the book, guys.

LAURA: We're literally going to finish off this bag of Jelly Bellies.

LIAM: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit point of damage, it cowers and dies.

ASHLEY: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.

MARISHA: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly Bellies, by the way.

MATT: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us to Pike, you're up.

TALIESIN: Oh no, that's my turn now.

MATT: Percy's up, then.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take just a standard shot with Bad News.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Ooh. 28 to hit.

MATT: 28 hits.

TALIESIN: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic. 18 points of damage.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And I'll take another shot with Bad News.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: 20 to hit.

MATT: 20 does not hit.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into the distance over the city of Westruun.

TALIESIN: All right. Turn's up.

MATT: All right. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.

SAM: Be beautiful! Be good!

LAURA: At what level?

ASHLEY: I'm going to– at third. Let me see this.

LIAM: Is this an attack range thing, or does it automatically–?

MATT: Spell attack roll, so you roll–

ASHLEY: And then I add that? That would be a 29.

MATT: 29. Damn, what did you roll?

ASHLEY: I rolled a 19.

MATT: That's nice. That'll hit.

ASHLEY: Okay, so now I do–

LAURA: 4d6 plus two more d6.

ASHLEY: 26.

MATT: 26 points of damage.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right. And the next attack against it has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now have this shining beacon across the torso. Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is that it? You want to move?

ASHLEY: Yeah. I'm going to stay.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of anything right now because I'm nervous.

MATT: We'll say right here in this area around Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up towards– Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?

ASHLEY: Three.

MATT: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a spell attack. Roll again.

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of divine energy versus the scales streak, but no damage is done. The blade is unable to strike through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike? Are you staying where you are?

SAM: Did you add your spell attack bonus?

LAURA: Yeah, she did.

MATT: All right. You going to move, stay where you are?

ASHLEY: I'll stay where I am.

MATT: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no. Yeah, I'm going to– Fassbender, slow the fucking dragon down now!

MATT: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it. What's the DC on it?

LIAM: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.

SAM: Who has the Fassbender stats?

LIAM: I've got it. Slow– 17.

MATT: 17. And that's a wisdom?

LIAM: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.

MATT: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the save.

SAM: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting Words-ed him.

MATT: That's true. Rolled even higher.

LIAM: Question: he'll just keep doing that until I tell him to stop, right?

MATT: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't, he might just start hitting it.

MARISHA: He's got to roll to see if it recharges. It'll recharge on a five or a six.

LIAM: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that potion (high-pitched) and I'm a tiny Vax.

MATT: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a small-sized creature.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!

SAM: I think this is the first time I've ever been taller than you.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's go in that dragon's gut.

SAM: I don't particularly like small people.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will think less of me?

SAM: Yes, I do.

MATT: Is that the end of your turn?

LIAM: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done

MATT: So Vax is actually like a few inches shorter than you. You're now towering over him.

SAM: I tousle his hair.

LIAM: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true! He's so small!

MATT: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about two and a half.

LIAM: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.

SAM: You're so cute!

LIAM: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.

SAM: My turn?

MATT: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike, Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be fabulous.

MATT: Transmute Rock–

MARISHA: It's a 120-foot range.

MATT: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So what are you doing?

MARISHA: I want to do the area just directly under Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the Herd around him.

MATT: Turning what into what?

MARISHA: I want to turn the ground directly underneath Umbrasyl into mud.

MATT: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of rock that you put beneath where the chains were there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt, it's earth.

MARISHA: Okay, I thought it had spread, because it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl, but I could do something else–

MATT: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do it without it pulling everybody else into it.

MARISHA: Okay. Plan B.

MATT: You can do it still, but it'll probably take some of the Herd with it.

MARISHA: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go with–

SAM: No.

MARISHA: No?

LIAM: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the gnome. Go.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars around Umbrasyl.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to stand on a rock?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a boost?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MARISHA: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.

MATT: All right, so you're putting Grog on a pillar.

MARISHA: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on a–

MATT: Which one?

MARISHA: Right up here.

MATT: All right. If I'd known you were going to use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.

MARISHA: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell anyone our plan.

MATT: I know, it's good. Now I know.

LIAM: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.

MATT: That's good. All right.

MARISHA: Let's do another one over here. Bam. Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three, four. One on the opposite side, over here. Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser pointer over there.

MATT: Where do you want it? Right there?

MARISHA: Over here-ish. On the other side of this one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?

MATT: Not through his wing, no.

MARISHA: So flanking this pillar on the other side over there, if that makes– flanking this pillar. So wait, move that one that you just placed over a bit.

MATT: This is like a summoning spell.

MARISHA: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.

MATT: That one there.

MARISHA: Let's do one up here.

MATT: You have one more.

MARISHA: Knock him in the chin.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Hopefully that contains him a bit.

MATT: All righty. That finish your turn?

MARISHA: Yeah, guess so.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Okay. Here we go.

LIAM: Here we go.

SAM: I turn to my little buddy and I say: are you ready for a ride, little man?

LIAM: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!

SAM: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike to inspire her with my bonus action first.

MATT: The range? Pike is quite far away.

SAM: Can't hear me, or it won't work?

MATT: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so yeah. She's too far away.

MARISHA: I'm behind you.

SAM: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun girls.

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d10.

MARISHA: Fuck yeah, d10.

SAM: And then I sort of link arms with good old Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta be tight together to do this, and I hold up my hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going to aim right for the belly of the beast.

LIAM: And I say: This is so fuuuu–

MATT: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the physiology of a dragon.

SAM: No, I am not.

LAURA: I gave him as much information as I could.

MATT: And you did. I would like for you to make an intelligence check.

SAM: Just an intelligence check.

MATT: This is your ability to ascertain based on what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon, where possibly in its body its stomach may be.

SAM: Okay. Why not?

LAURA: Is it advantage because I told him where it would be?

SAM: Nope. 12?

LIAM: Can I give him my Luck?

MATT: (laughs) No.

SAM: It's just intelligence, right, there's no other–

MATT: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to it.

SAM: Yeah, it's two.

MATT: You would add two to that because of your bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.

SAM: Okay, 14, then.

ASHLEY: Is there anything extra from heroes' feast? No?

MATT: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish. The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet, crushing interior. You have finished your Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are being crushed between what feels like two layers of musculature. Both of you.

SAM: Hi, dude.

MATT: You don't know where each other are. You don't see the other person. There's no sight. You can't hear anything.

SAM: Are we touching at all?

MATT: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two different sides of a membrane, and you don't know where you are.

SAM: It's going great.

MATT: All right. Does that end your turn?

SAM: Yeah, that's all– I'll use my movement to go–

MATT: You are both considered restrained, so your speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of acid damage, reduced to four.

SAM: Awesome.

LIAM: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.

ASHLEY: Oh, I have one.

LIAM: 60 seconds.

MATT: You also both currently have no air. At the top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).

LIAM: Suck it, bitch!

MATT: “I will eat all of you!”

LIAM: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you motherfucker.

LAURA: I'm up?

MATT: You're up first, top of the round.

LAURA: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles right in front of his face.

MATT: I'm really hoping we can put more things on the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a cool idea.

LAURA: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.

MATT: It's not like I don't have enough to concentrate on up there.

LAURA: I'm sorry.

MATT: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this air elemental is a giant eagle.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all I ever wanted in my life.

SAM: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon with me?

MATT: We'll say these are up in the air.

LAURA: Okay, right in front of–

MATT: Because I've used all the height things for–

LAURA: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a–

MATT: It's an action.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his eyes.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: They get their own–

MATT: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's their dexterity bonus?

LAURA: You sent me a thing– let's go with that. Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.

MATT: So it would be plus three, that puts them at 11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.

LAURA: And then for my bonus action, I'm going to– I can't cast two spells, even if one's a bonus action?

MATT: As long as it's a level two or lower.

LAURA: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to hide a lot? I'm going to hide.

MATT: You didn't start the round hidden, so you can't do that.

LAURA: I wasn't still hidden?

MATT: No, you have to spend a bonus action to attempt to hide at the end of your turn.

LAURA: Can I attempt to hide?

MATT: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do that as a bonus action on your turn.

LAURA: But on my boots of haste I can use it to dash, disengage, or hide.

MATT: Oh, you're using your bonus action– so your extra action, not your bonus action.

LAURA: Okay, my extra action.

MATT: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: You vanish into the foliage.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the grapple. There we go. So four more chains get latched on so they're holding. Each chain increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as they're all holding it down, the five in the back that are going to take attacks on it are going to do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss, miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage, five damage, and eight damage.

LAURA: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come they were hitting us so hard?

MATT: They're rolling really terrible. They get two attacks each. All right. And with that, the tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the creature. However, it does make its saving throw, so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage. That brings us to the end of that round. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Could I go into a frenzied rage?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm not within striking distance, right?

MATT: You can hit it.

TRAVIS: From up there?

MATT: Yeah, it's pretty tall.

TRAVIS: (laughs) I would like to use all three of my attacks against his backside, reckless.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: These are just regular. They're not great weapon master. 23.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.

MATT: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on that plus two additional d12s.

TRAVIS: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional d12s?

MATT: Yep, 21 plus?

TRAVIS: Ten, 31.

MATT: 31.

TRAVIS: Seven, so 38.

MATT: 38 points of damage on the first strike. Next two strikes, roll for it.

TRAVIS: That was awful. 13.

MATT: 13, all right. Last one.

TRAVIS: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.

MATT: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to wing attack you. It's going to cost its last–

TRAVIS: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.

MATT: Total of eight?

TRAVIS: Total of eight.

MATT: All right. Expending two of its actions to use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and start beating its wings as hard as it can, even with the chains amongst it. Each creature within 50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.

TRAVIS: (singing) I believe I can fly–

MATT: The only one of the party within– what did you roll?

TRAVIS: A nine.

MATT: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.

TRAVIS: Reduced to…

MATT: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed, falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the ground, the pillar remains there. You take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, from the impact. But you are knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh, man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto their backs. Then it is still technically grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed, unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Holding my action until its action.

MATT: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and attempt to break free of the final chains that are there.

TALIESIN: With disadvantage.

MATT: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.

LAURA: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap then, too?

MATT: Well, the trap that's currently holding it in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and the chains are just there to increase the DC. So with that, the actual metal structure of the trap that held it in place is shattered. You can see pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement of the wings. Currently right now there are still hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some of them have broken and most of them are unmanned at the moment. The dragon is going to (wings flapping) go ahead and–

TALIESIN: Can I take my action?

MATT: You can, yes.

TALIESIN: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.

MATT: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll for the attack.

TALIESIN: Natural fucking 20.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Oh no, oh my god, right now.

MARISHA: He's taking a photo?

TRAVIS: He's taking a photo.

TALIESIN: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means he has to make a strength saving throw or he's prone.

MATT: Correct. So roll the damage first.

TALIESIN: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double dice, so that's– 23 points doubled is 46 plus–

MATT: Plus the modifier. So 46 is–

TALIESIN: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52 points of damage total.

LIAM: That bullet came from the center of the Pacific Ocean!

MATT: Strength saving throw.

TALIESIN: I rolled really well.

MATT: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary actions to automatically succeed, one of its legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from the ground, because of all the guys that are knocked prone–

TALIESIN: Wait!

MATT: What was that?

TALIESIN: I was going to pop off a couple more shots.

MATT: You held your action, okay. So you fired, loaded, fired last round.

TALIESIN: I was going to blow an action surge.

MATT: Oh. It's weird to do– Out of turn action, it is a little strange to do that.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: He held his action. That's something you do on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.

TALIESIN: No, it's okay. Go ahead.

MATT: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.

LIAM: Here we go, Scanlan.

MATT: It's actually going to move back this way.

ASHLEY: Did he never land on the glyph?

MATT: He landed in the trap immediately and the trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.

ASHLEY: It was if he landed on it.

MATT: You said it was to–

LIAM: Pull it off.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we said to lift it off.

MATT: All right. Flying back at that point (flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger. Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this heavy contraction within its body as you guys watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.

LIAM: Look at all those people.

LAURA: Are they all going to die?

MATT: Everything there– Okay.

LAURA: The birds were up in the air, though.

MATT: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands over everything. That's how it works.

SAM: Pike, are you in there?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.

LAURA: 15d8?

SAM: I think a lot of those people will be fine.

MATT: So that's 81 points of damage to all those guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.

LAURA: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.

SAM: No, just me and Liam.

MATT: Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're entirely ruined.

LAURA: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They didn't even get to fucking go.

MATT: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the Hope-Devourer's turn.

MARISHA: The Hope-Devourer?

MATT: That is the full name.

SAM: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last name is Devourer?

MATT: Devourer. Married into it.

SAM: It's hyphenated?

MATT: Hyphenated, yeah.

TRAVIS: Marriage fucked everything up.

MARISHA: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage fucked everything up.

MATT: You guys have both entirely vanished, you both are inside the entity. All right, so. Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It smacks into the ground five feet from your feet and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you just immediately turns black and seems to almost coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line. It just barely misses you. All right, that's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt him again.

MATT: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest of the battlefield, your shield up and your Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding Bolt attack.

TRAVIS: How high is he?

MATT: 30 feet. He went back.

ASHLEY: 28?

MATT: 28 hits.

TRAVIS: Fuck him up, Pike.

MARISHA: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down any?

ASHLEY: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.

LAURA: What level are you casting it at?

ASHLEY: Four again.

MATT: How many 4th-level spells do you have left now? Because you cast–

ASHLEY: I have two more.

MATT: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?

LIAM: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward. And is that it?

ASHLEY: The last Guiding Bolt.

LAURA: Yeah, so that's only two you used.

MATT: Right. So you have how many more left at 4th-level?

ASHLEY: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That is going to be 4d– how much do you get Guiding Bolt damage on that then?

LAURA: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?

ASHLEY: At fourth level, that would be seven, then.

MATT: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.

ASHLEY: 22.

MATT: 22 points of damage.

ASHLEY: But I'll also– never mind. We're good, 22.

MATT: You're good. Okay.

ASHLEY: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically on the ground over here.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to move it to the back of his neck.

MATT: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack. It is more than 20 feet away.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: It's down there, so it can begin to shift upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's partway floating in midair.

ASHLEY: Can it get his feet?

MATT: No, it can't. It's too far away, unfortunately.

ASHLEY: All right, well, it'll start working its way up there.

MATT: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right. It would be the eagles' turn, but they got dissolved.

LAURA: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that back out.

MATT: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that you guys held my dragon to the ground for two rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.

LIAM: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have dissolved.

MATT: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax, you're up first. At the top of your round–

LIAM: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm going to cut the insides of this–

MATT: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on the inside are just– You're in between musculature right now and just being crushed.

LIAM: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?

MATT: You are restrained, so go ahead and make your attack at disadvantage.

LIAM: At disadvantage.

LAURA: But it can't very well avoid it.

MATT: It's about him being able to actually move and get it.

LIAM: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?

MATT: Plus one to hit.

LIAM: With strength?

MATT: It would be strength, but we've agreed that it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex bonus, you just can't sneak attack.

LIAM: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.

MATT: Be grateful I'm being–

LIAM: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity here. So this is a 17 to hit.

MATT: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.

LIAM: Use Luck.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Nothing.

ASHLEY: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?

MATT: He's trying from the inside.

ASHLEY: Can I cast War God's Blessing?

MATT: Does War God's Blessing require you to see the creature?

ASHLEY: Probably not.

MATT: We'll find out.

SAM: Yeah, probably.

TRAVIS: Probably not.

MATT: When a creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll– So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl– (laughs) You see this form moving in there. You know, based on what you guys have discussed before– I hope you discussed this plan before.

LIAM: We discussed it so much.

MATT: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it is?

ASHLEY: Plus ten.

MATT: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the longsword.

MARISHA: Is this sneak attack?

MATT: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long blade.

TRAVIS: But against dragons it does specific damage.

LIAM: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.

MATT: Let me look it up here just to be safe.

LIAM: 15 from the inside.

MATT: 15 damage from the inside.

LIAM: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing room. And a question that only you know, Matthew–

MATT: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.

LIAM: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?

TALIESIN: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.

LIAM: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't know. It's crazy circumstance.

MATT: The reason that you would get sneak attack for having another creature within five feet is because it is harrying and the opponent is distracted–

LIAM: The heartburn is not distracting it?

MATT: Not enough.

LIAM: Not enough. Okay.

MATT: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.

LAURA: You get a d8 plus your d6.

LIAM: Yes, I know. I did it.

LAURA: Then you did the additional 3d6?

LIAM: I did, darling.

LAURA: And you only got 15?

LIAM: I only got 15. I would like to use the dagger to cut into him as well.

MATT: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that attack.

LIAM: Disadvantage?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.

MATT: You can't even get your dagger out of the sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting through muscle, and you feel the body and the muscle just tense based on the reaction of the interior pain. You watch the dragon, but it's still keeping up in the air.

LIAM: I'm okay. Okay.

MATT: You are beginning to suffocate.

LIAM: All right.

SAM: Oh, jesus.

MATT: I mean, you can hold your breath for a little while here, but just letting you know, there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet, but you know there is no air to breathe currently.

LIAM: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's fine.

MATT: All right. That's your turn. That brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.

MATT: Right there?

MARISHA: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so I can– Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has to make a strength saving throw.

MATT: Strength saving throw. That is a failure. It's going to use its second legendary resistance, succeeds.

MARISHA: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off two of his legendary resistances.

LIAM: Also, I have no idea what the initiative order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I tell him to do something else, right?

MATT: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.

LIAM: A d6.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Two.

MATT: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move. It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth elemental.

MATT: Okay. All right.

MARISHA: And I'm going to take the remaining of my movement to move up–

MATT: Up?

MARISHA: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.

MATT: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?

MARISHA: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is– Yes, 30, so he moves up 20 feet.

MATT: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to use a tail attack against you, Pike, because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a 32 to hit.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.

MATT: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.

ASHLEY: And I'm staying up there?

MATT: You're barely holding on up there, but yes. You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take your sword and dig in to the opposite side and catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn. At the top of your turn, you take six points of acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found your way into the stomach. He did not.

SAM: Is it big in there?

MATT: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed together right now. It's not a giant, empty void, it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it is a–

LIAM: Click, motherfucker, click.

MATT: You're also holding your breath. You are also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.

SAM: I can move my arms, though.

MATT: You can. You're still pressed in but you can move your hands, yeah.

SAM: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod out and click it.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out– This is going to be weird. All right. So you take out the immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it stays there aloft in the center. You have darkvision as a gnome, correct?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Right, so there in this space amongst the murky liquid you can just barely see its shape there and it is held aloft, yes.

SAM: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys. We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is that my bonus? What is that?

MATT: No, that's your action to pull it out and click it. Because it's not easy to do in your current circumstance.

SAM: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because I don't think I can hear– oh! I'm going to use the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?

MATT: You guys hear through the earring, (incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has now escaped your lungs.

SAM: Fuck!

MATT: You're not drowning yet. That ends your turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Do I get advantage on attacking it because of Guiding Bolt?

MATT: You do. The next attack, yes.

SAM: Did Vax reply?

MATT: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not give you advantage on the attack, because you're on the inside and you don't actually see the Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.

LIAM: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt, it's fine.

LAURA: I've got to see, because I just want to know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know, Keyleth?

MARISHA: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No, 30 feet.

LAURA: How high in the air is–

MATT: He is 30 feet up right now.

MARISHA: You technically have a pillar that's 30 feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it into a pillar.

LAURA: I'm going to– can it go from the bottom of the pillar up towards him?

MATT: If you want to. Down here, you mean?

LAURA: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of his legs and yank him back down towards the ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the immovable rod inside of him.

MATT: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action, you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.

LAURA: I have two because I have a pearl of power.

MATT: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should have.

MATT: You should have told me. But we'll say as part of the preparation you did that, okay. So Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar up at Umbrasyl.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. The creature has to succeed on a dexterity saving throw or be pulled– what's the DC on your spell?

LAURA: Um, 16.

MATT: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks away the vine.

LAURA: That was my bonus.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three times with my hasting.

MATT: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: First one has advantage.

LAURA: Okay. 24?

MATT: 24 hits.

LAURA: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's got somebody close to him. Inside of him.

MATT: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not so much about– there's somebody close, but a person that is not threatening him from his current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody from eating bad pasta.

LAURA: Cool. Then just seven–

SAM: Did he move?

MATT: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Ten points of damage for the first attack.

LAURA: For the first attack.

MATT: Second attack? This does not have advantage, only the first one did. What was your first roll?

LAURA: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last one.

MATT: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase it, the second one it actually hits the wing and the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the air as it's keeping itself up. The third one, however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black dragon.

LAURA: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out there?

MATT: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there. As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.

TRAVIS: Is it grabbing him or not?

MATT: It failed with the grab. All right. End of your turn? Is that what you're doing?

LAURA: Am I hiding still?

MATT: You have to use a bonus action to try and hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use your extra action from the haste to do it, but you already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.

LAURA: Ugh! Fine.

MATT: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to do another tail attack against you, Pike.

TRAVIS: Is that the third one?

MATT: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and doing so distracts it and the tail just swings overhead and you duck below it as it just barely misses your head by inches. One of your braids actually comes loose from the amount of wind that blows by. That brings us to–

TRAVIS: What's left of the Herd.

MATT: Herd's turn.

TRAVIS: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll better.

MATT: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the chains that they can. The chains have broken, so they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through–

MARISHA: Have they all broken? Maybe some just came loose.

MATT: This was their plan. The plan they agreed to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had them at their side. They're all leaping up towards it.

LAURA: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that they're all clumping together again?

LIAM: That's redundant.

LAURA: These guys are dumb.

MATT: You've met…

TRAVIS: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for that later, by the way.

MATT: All right, so they're all going to take javelin shots at– miss. Miss. Two– miss. Hit. Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four, eight, that's 12, plus seven– 19 points of damage from the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's– there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Yes, I have two questions. One of the things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted javelins. What do those do?

MATT: They're thrown, ranged attacks.

TRAVIS: And they're just enchanted?

MATT: They're plus one to hit and damage.

TRAVIS: Just that.

MATT: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple enchantment.

TRAVIS: What is my climbing speed? If my natural speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column, what's the climbing speed?

MATT: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent climb check– here. That would be– I'd say that would be an athletics check to see if you can climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But you're also prone, so getting up from that's half your speed.

TRAVIS: On my back, can I use my bonus action to drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?

MATT: Yes you can. You now have technically four attacks per round.

TRAVIS: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand up?

MATT: Yep. 50 feet.

TRAVIS: Can I try and climb that column towards Umbrasyl's feet?

MATT: Athletics check.

TRAVIS: That's not awesome. 18.

MATT: 18. You just manage to get to the top with the last bit of your movement. So you are up about ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at an angle.

TRAVIS: So I have four attacks?

MATT: Yes. You're not in melee, though.

TRAVIS: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted javelins and the javelin of lightning.

MATT: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds) finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead and make the first three strikes.

TRAVIS: Reckless, all of them.

MATT: Okay, so with advantage on each of these. The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going to pull it up real fast, since this is the first time you've used this.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of lightning.

MATT: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go ahead and roll. First one is?

TRAVIS: It's an 11 plus– just my natural like–

MATT: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: Plus your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.

TRAVIS: Oh no, my proficiency–

MATT: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus– so yeah, that hits.

TRAVIS: Okay. Where's my proficiency– oh five, I got it.

MATT: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these attacks. The first one hits.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Second one.

TRAVIS: Is 28.

MATT: Hits. Third one.

TRAVIS: Is 19.

MATT: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw and I think it hits.

TRAVIS: And the second one, the last one is a 30.

MATT: The last one, I don't think you actually roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a bolt of lightning.

TRAVIS: That's right.

MATT: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of those javelins.

TRAVIS: So that's 12.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: All righty. And now with the javelin of lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the save. What's the DC?

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17, so it takes the half damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: What's the damage on it total?

TRAVIS: 4d6.

MATT: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half damage.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.

TRAVIS: Six–

MATT: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts and then just falls to the ground, the energy expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing shot.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 20, that does not hit.

MATT: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.

TALIESIN: All right, that's one grit. Taking another shot.

MATT: Okay, reload, and then shot again.

TALIESIN: That hits. 30.

MATT: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: 15 points of damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.

MATT: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.

TALIESIN: DC is 19.

MATT: Okay, so it succeeds.

TALIESIN: It succeeds on the 19?

MATT: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge to take a third shot.

MATT: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for it.

TALIESIN: 21 does not hit?

MATT: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide, shooting past the beating wings.

TALIESIN: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide behind that tree and wait for my next round.

MATT: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy. Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save with a 27. All right, bringing us to– 8d6. 13 points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon spells at his disposal. Now it comes to– actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's going to use its last legendary action to make one more tail swipe at you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: That is going to be a 29 to hit.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All righty. You take– that's really bad. That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.

TRAVIS: I stay up?

MATT: Yeah, you stay up.

(loud clanging sound from Skype)

MATT: What's happening over there?

LIAM: Taliesin!

MATT: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to move to the left.

LIAM: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.

SAM: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.

MATT: Correct. If the creature pushes against it, it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.

LIAM: That thing's fixed in space.

MATT: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling something tear through on the inside of its area so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point of damage, but the warning is there. It does not move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go right there. Angrily lay down right there.

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: No!

LIAM: But you're resistant.

TALIESIN: Isn't he having plummeting issues if he's not moving?

MATT: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how it works.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: No, they all fail. All right. They are all right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.

LAURA: Where's Zanror?

MATT: Zanror's right there at the bottom.

LAURA: Where's his wife?

MATT: His wife is over here. And when I say wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: 16.

MARISHA: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one. Not a natural one. Rolled a two.

MATT: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Resistance, so I halve that?

MATT: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.

MARISHA: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an earth elemental.

MATT: Unable to move, that is the end of Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up.

(laughter)

MATT: Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: I am going to cast Blindness on him.

MATT: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is it wisdom?

ASHLEY: I think it's constitution. Constitution saving throw.

MATT: All right, constitution saving throw. That is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.

LIAM: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.

ASHLEY: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: All right. So it now shifts up into space as a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack modifier.

ASHLEY: 29.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8 plus five, correct? Pretty sure.

ASHLEY: 1d8 for every two slot levels–

MATT: You did second level for that one, because it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: Nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl. Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but this time you can see it left a carve of glowing red mark across the scales where the blade managed to do some damage to it. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush you from the inside.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to– can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm inside him! That's very surprising!

MATT: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey center. All of its body is still very dense, sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know where you are in its body, so you don't know where the actual weak points are. So, given those circumstances, your ability to barely move– Probably not.

LIAM: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at disadvantage?

MATT: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.

LIAM: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.

MATT: That unfortunately is not cutting through.

LIAM: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword. Okay. That's a 21?

MATT: 21, just barely not able to cut through the dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like a ligament or something, it can't quite carve through with your body all crushed up inside.

LIAM: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and also Fassbender should still be trying to recharge.

MATT: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.

LIAM: d6. Four.

MATT: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to drop into the earth and Earthglide.

MATT: All right. How many feet are you going?

MARISHA: With my 60 feet– question, can I get across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?

MATT: Oh, right there?

MARISHA: That one.

MATT: You can get up to there. You're wider than the pillar, though. You like–

MARISHA: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see if I can jump and grab onto his leg.

MATT: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?

MARISHA: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.

MATT: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?

MARISHA: And shoot out with a waterslide trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?

MATT: Okay. I'll say that– It's pretty fast– Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.

MARISHA: I'm thinking about it real hard.

MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics check.

MARISHA: So is that strength as a–

MATT: That would be strength as an earth elemental if you do not have a specific skill for it.

MARISHA: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration. Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.

MATT: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom of its foot.

(cheering)

MATT: You're not halting or doing anything to Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding on to–

MARISHA: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it, like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier than Fassbender.

MARISHA: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?

MATT: 2,000.

MARISHA: 2,000 pounds.

LAURA: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.

MARISHA: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go metric?

MATT: The European watchers are like–

MARISHA: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay. I'm holding on for dear life.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I know from my experience going to the pubs with Grog–

MATT: Take eight points of acid damage, by the way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.

SAM: I'm fine. How's my lungs?

MATT: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check before I forget.

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add anything?

MATT: Well the DC is half the damage you took from the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to acid, Grog.

TRAVIS: Copy that.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: No, it came in handy for the one.

MARISHA: It did.

SAM: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?

MATT: Your air is out, you're still holding your breath, per se, but you have one more round before you actually probably start–

LIAM: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50 seconds.

SAM: While you're screaming?

LIAM: So Vax and Scanlan should be–

MATT: You're doing okay. He screamed and released all the air out of his lungs. So he's now completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.

SAM: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can last one more round in here.

MATT: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)

SAM: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the stomach will really make you barf pretty easily, so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six and hope that he spits me up.

ASHLEY: Spits you both up, maybe.

LIAM: I'm still in its anus.

TRAVIS: We don't even know where you are, really.

SAM: You're done, friend, sorry.

MATT: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking at 7d8 thunder damage.

SAM: Yes. Thunder damage.

MATT: Go ahead and roll that.

MARISHA: Do you need more d8s?

LIAM: All part of the plan.

SAM: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.

LIAM: The hastily smushed-together plan.

SAM: 7d8?

MATT: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so it succeeds.

SAM: So it'll be halved.

MATT: Half damage.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.

SAM: 25.

MATT: 25.

SAM: Only 12 points.

MATT: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, because you are on the other side of the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of the stomach crushes–

LIAM: Natural 20!

(cheering)

MATT: You take 12 points of damage as well.

LIAM: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.

MATT: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part for– Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not vomiting.

SAM: Not vomiting.

MATT: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of the dragon–

SAM: Does a little come up and he swallows it back down?

MATT: Basically. A little, almost.

ASHLEY: Maybe you got a little air though. For you.

SAM: I don't know, did that make a little air?

ASHLEY: Probably give you enough time to (inhales).

MATT: From the source of the force that probably pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through the esophagus instinctually as when the space opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp) sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief little glimpse of light at the top of the esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily. Scanlan, is that your turn?

SAM: I can't do much else. Do I have any movement?

MATT: You are restrained so your movement is zero.

SAM: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.

MATT: You're not like floating in a giant pool of water. You're crushed against membranes with acid. Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in that middle period right there, you're between two folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all around. It's awesome.

SAM: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh! Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.

ASHLEY: What?

LIAM: I just want to remind everyone, I am really small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments, anything.

SAM: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.

MATT: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make dexterity saving throws.

LIAM: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.

SAM: I know! This is the best place to be. We're only going to suffocate and be crushed.

TRAVIS: 18.

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and are thrust towards the edge of the stone, I need you both to make strength checks to resist the force to the blow.

MARISHA: Hold on! Nice.

TRAVIS: 21.

ASHLEY: Ten.

TRAVIS: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning, or is that already halved?

MATT: No, it's halved for you after that. However, you both are, from the sheer force of the wind, blown off the top–

TRAVIS: A 21?

MARISHA: What did you have to beat?

MATT: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use my celestial shield and cast Featherfall.

MATT: Okay. So you take no damage from the additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.

TRAVIS: My eight is halved.

MATT: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl of power only works up to level three, so I don't have two level fours, I already used the one. So. Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out of the ether. This time I want to conjure them like ten feet above his head.

MATT: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I need you to go ahead and make a save as well, because you were on it as it's beating its wings, too.

MARISHA: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?

MATT: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

MARISHA: That's not good. Four.

MATT: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.

MARISHA: Halved because I'm an elemental.

MATT: And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.

MARISHA: Strength? 19.

MATT: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.

MARISHA: That sucks.

MATT: Like a rock slamming into the ground.

LAURA: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way down.

MATT: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact with the ground, leaving a small crater. However, there are two giant eagles that are now floating in the vicinity around the dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.

LAURA: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would I be able to see any weird little bumps on the dragon? Because my brother's been in there a while. Can I see anything going on?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good already. It's pretty good.

SAM: Our earrings should work.

LAURA: I'm sorry.

SAM: We don't need to talk.

LAURA: 28. No, 29 perception.

MATT: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts of like the central row of scales, there is a small lump that is constantly struggling not far from the surface and is just darting around like a cartoon flea.

LAURA: I'm going to aim right by there. But not quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.

MATT: All right. Roll for it.

LIAM: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch? That was the best. And then also we used to take baths together when we were really little, but that was when we were really little–

LAURA: 20. Doesn't hit.

MATT: 20, it hits and shatters–

ASHLEY: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use it every turn. Every round.

MATT: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing, Channel Divinity– Which currently– You can use it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.

ASHLEY: Let's do it.

MATT: So that does hit.

LAURA: Oh, it hits?

MATT: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.

LAURA: Oh my goodness!

TRAVIS: Pike!

LIAM: Vex'ahlia–

LAURA: Ten damage.

MATT: Let's see here, what's the range on that one?

MARISHA: He's consulting the book again.

MATT: Just checking to see the range on that last because it does have a range–

LAURA: He's getting my hopes up and then he's going to dash them down to the ground.

MATT: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of you makes an attack roll, so you could not, unfortunately.

ASHLEY: What was that, say again?

MATT: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too far away. So that one does miss, shatters across the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack and then your extra if you want to.

LAURA: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying) Okay, that's good. 23!

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: Okay. 11.

MATT: 11 points of damage.

SAM: Yeah, he's dead!

LAURA: How do I want to do this?

(laughter)

MATT: You can't summon it yourself.

LAURA: Dammit!

MATT: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a (impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it is using your elven darkvision, you can see what looks to be a part of an arrow point that has stuck through the armor.

LIAM: I wrap my fingers around it.

MATT: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.

SAM: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be anybody's!

LIAM: Shut the fuck up, gnome!

MATT: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra and says, “We have to go. Save our child.” And Worra looks and sees all the dead around her. “Only if you come with me.” Looks back and says, “No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this with my cousin.” She turns and goes into a full dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up. Not all the way. Take a step back and make four arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss, and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of damage from the arrow. That guy over there is going to move around and he's going to grab one of the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Still hasted. Can I stand up?

MATT: Okay, so 50 feet.

TRAVIS: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: How tall am I?

MATT: You are twice your size, so you're pushing about 12 feet.

LAURA: He's only six feet tall?

MARISHA: He's gotta be taller than six feet.

MATT: It's roughly half your height, not perfect–

LIAM: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.

LAURA: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.

MARISHA: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.

MATT: Don't argue with the DM.

MARISHA: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.

LIAM: You're like two feet tall now and it's really impressive.

TRAVIS: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind? And can I attach the chain of returning to the Bloodaxe–

MATT: I assume it was attached before the battle.

TRAVIS: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Do I have four? No, I just have one throw.

MATT: You have one throw. It hits and then you can pull it back.

TRAVIS: If I want to.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Reckless.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: That's even better. 29.

MATT: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.

MATT: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to pull back?

TRAVIS: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want to weigh on it.

MATT: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail attack against one of the eagles. That is going to be a 21 to hit.

LAURA: I bet that hits.

MATT: The giant eagle takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: I'm sure that probably kills him.

MARISHA: He has 26 hit points.

LAURA: He's got six points left.

MATT: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit points left.

TRAVIS: Does enlarging do anything to my damage? Sorry.

MATT: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any melee attacks.

TRAVIS: I didn't do that. Can I do that?

MATT: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.

TRAVIS: Hey, four!

MATT: There you go. So that's an additional four damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do you got, Laura?

LAURA: They're going to fly and attack his eyeballs! Fuck him up.

ASHLEY: Get him!

MATT: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so roll four attacks.

LAURA: Roll four attacks?

MATT: Yes. Plus five to each.

LIAM: That one hits.

LAURA: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.

MATT: So two hits. All right. So that is–

LAURA: So those would be, like, one beak and one talon maybe?

MATT: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.

LAURA: Nine for one on the eyeballs.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: And eight on the talons.

MATT: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain in its stomach.

LAURA: Eyeballs.

MATT: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it, they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its horns around and batting them away. If you wanted to make called shots for its eyes specifically, none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural 20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's eyes have pretty decent armor.

LAURA: That's cool, okay, good to know.

MATT: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on Percy.

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: Text us your move.

TALIESIN: No, I'm good.

MATT: What are you doing?

TALIESIN: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's all I got left.

MATT: All right. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Here we go. 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

TALIESIN: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken audio).

TRAVIS: Say that again, Perce.

TALIESIN: 20, 24 points of damage.

MATT: Nice.

TALIESIN: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my second shot.

MATT: All right. Reload, second shot.

TALIESIN: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's m–(audio glitches)

MATT: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled explosion).

TALIESIN: Putting it away, pulling out the other gun.

MATT: All right, so that's the end of your turn?

TALIESIN: That's the end of my turn.

MATT: All right. Noja actually is getting scared, yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that whole time and this dragon taking all of these blows and is still standing has gotten to his head. Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity, you know, starting to show some wear and tear and some serious damage to it now. And it's going to go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the rod hits the edge of the body and tears through the stomach.

LIAM: Damage.

MATT: And tears through the abdomen and out the side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the side of its body.

MARISHA: That's going to be a lot of damage, right?

LIAM: That's a fuckin' missile.

MATT: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it ejects from the side. He is going to–

TRAVIS: I'm still attached to him, too.

MATT: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see here.

TRAVIS: I'm going for a ride.

MARISHA: We burned through all of his legendary saves.

SAM: One more.

LIAM: You're attached to him? By a chain?

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a strength check.

TRAVIS: Advantage on this. 24.

MATT: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.

SAM: (terrified laughter)

LIAM: He's scared.

MATT: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.

LIAM: Work that broom, girl!

MATT: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where we're going to pick up the next one.

(yelling)

MATT: It's midnight!

TRAVIS: Three of us are not here next week.

MATT: Three of you are not here– That's right. Do you guys want to keep going then?

LIAM: Yes!

TRAVIS: It's either that or–

MATT: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.

TRAVIS: We're not here.

LAURA: What do you guys think? Would you rather wait two weeks?

LIAM: I want to go.

LAURA: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys have to stay.

SAM: You want to go, keep going?

LIAM: Keep going.

SAM: It could be a long night.

ASHLEY: Who's not here next week?

TRAVIS: Laura, Travis, and Sam.

MATT: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next week because we're missing half the party.

SAM: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come back in two weeks.

LIAM: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and getting up in the morning.

MATT: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.

SAM: Why don't we skip next week and come back in two weeks to finish?

LAURA: I feel like that's smarter.

MATT: All right, let's do that.

LIAM: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for two weeks?

TRAVIS: That 30 minutes fucked us.

MATT: Picking up in two weeks from now.

(yelling)

MARISHA: This is awful.

SAM: The worst cliffhanger ever.

MATT: We have the remnants of the Herd and most of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and Scanlan inside of its body.

LIAM: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little tunnel out.

MARISHA: Make a little breathing hole?

SAM: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.

TRAVIS: It's the shaft of an arrow.

TALIESIN: This is chaos. I will see you guys later. I can't hear anything.

MARISHA: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!

MATT: Oh man, this is going to get real interesting.

SAM: How are we going to survive two weeks thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts of things to keep us– We'll be able to play with new toys and drink from–

(laughing)

TRAVIS: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.

LAURA: That went south. That went seriously south.

SAM: We're not doing well.

TRAVIS: We're doing great.

MATT: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken some damage.

LIAM: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?

MATT: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys. We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday. It might be another Q&A hangout session for those of us who are still in town.

LIAM: Son of a b.

ASHLEY: Why are you guys going?

MARISHA: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico that long? No?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: They got birthday events and travel to do. It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks, back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout session, two weeks from now with the dramatic conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.

LIAM: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.

LAURA: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.

MATT: (laughs) That's awful.

MARISHA: Such a death wish.

LIAM: Kill me.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden name Hope.

LIAM: The dragon's name is Hope.

MATT: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs) See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night. 

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice and play Dungeons & Dragons. So, welcome. I know we had a two-week hiatus. We had some birthdays– in fact, the twins had a birthday.

(cheering)

MATT: Awesome. A lot of really amazing community art came out of it, because you guys are ridiculous, and we'll probably see some of that at the break today. But before we kick into the game, let's get through our announcements for the evening while we also wait for Mr. Sam Riegel, Scanlan, who I think we all can consider is pretty important to tonight's events, seeing as how he's currently being digested in the belly of the dragon.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Oh shit!

LIAM: That didn't happen.

MATT: Yes it did. Yes it did. No. So. Starting off our announcements for the evening: first off, I am going to be flying out bright and early tomorrow morning to A-Kon in Dallas. I'll be out there doing panels and signings with a bunch of other great guests. I understand the same weekend is also Dallas Comic Con, because what the fuck, Dallas? At which Mary and Steve are there also, so don't choose: come to both! No.

TRAVIS: Wade the waters.

MATT: Exactly. But I'll be doing signings, panels, and meeting a bunch of you Critters that are out in that area, so come by and say hi this weekend. And if not, go say hi to Steve and Mary, wherever that happens, in the lesser part of Dallas. I don't know if it is, I just like–

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's a lesser part of Dallas, totally, over with the lesser– are you guys throwing up because of how nervous you are?

LAURA: What? No. Oh, my dice! Where are my dice?!

MATT: Where are your dice?

LAURA: I'm so nervous, I don't even have my dice!

TRAVIS: I'll go find them, I'll go find them.

MATT: Travis is going to get them. Wow. Two weeks to stew on this and it's already falling apart.

LIAM: This is the exact icy, steely demeanor that I depend on.

LAURA: Oh my god, are they in there?

MATT: While he looks for those–

TALIESIN: I have extras, if you need some.

MATT: I do want to also say the newest Dear Abby article series for Critical Role characters went up– or goes up tomorrow, right?

MARISHA: Tomorrow, Fridays.

MATT: Friday. And whose is that one?

MARISHA: Who goes up next?

LAURA: What? Who goes up what next?

MATT: The next Dear Abby?

LAURA: Oh, I think it's me!

MATT: Oh! Then we'll have Vex tomorrow coming up. See her answering questions to various distraught people throughout the realms of Exandria, and her I'm sure very astute–

LAURA: I'm a really good giver of advice. I learned that about myself.

ASHLEY: It's true.

LIAM: More about quantity than quality? Maybe?

MATT: Possibly. This is very true. So look for that tomorrow on geekandsundry.com, that'll be fun and exciting. Also, for those who didn't catch it yesterday, we had an awesome event at Meltdown Comics with the official Dungeons & Dragons crew announcing: one, their new storyline, which is the Storm King's Thunder, I think is what it's called. Really awesome, bringing the giants back into the world with a very fleshed-out story. I'm super excited about it, and keep tabs on that whenever that comes out, should be in the next few months, I think. I've seen some stuff behind-the-scenes and it looks really, really cool. But as part of that event yesterday, we also kicked off and announced a new video series campaign that I'm doing with the actual Wizards of the Coast Dungeons & Dragons team. Me and Chris Perkins wrote and designed together a story that I fleshed out and am running for a series of celebrity guests, one of which is our fantastic Ashley Johnson there.

ASHLEY: Hey!

LAURA and MARISHA: You're a celebrity!

MATT: That was pretty great, guys. I'm not going to lie, that was pretty legit.

LIAM: Just keep vamping. Keep vamping until the bard gets here.

MATT: That's right, we're waiting on Scanlan to get here. Other guests include Utkarsh, Shelby, Jonah– I wrote all the first names down because the last names, some of them were hard to pronounce, but you can look up the actual announcements to get the full names. I'm really bad at this. It's been two weeks, give me a break.

LIAM: You're busy. You're busy.

MATT: Nah! I've got so much free time. But it's going to be a great group, and I look forward to announcing it soon on when those will begin to air throughout the summer, because it's going to be a lot of fun. And I get to play in Forgotten Realms, which is something I've wanted to do again for a long time, and hope I don't mess up all the existing fantastic lore that Ed Greenwood has developed since he– oh, are you okay, Laura?

LAURA: No, I really feel like I'm going to throw up.

TRAVIS: There's literally up-chuck going to happen. Just do it in a little thing and I'll feed it back to you like a little bird

LIAM: Just go in there.

LAURA: (retching noise) I threw up so many dice!

TRAVIS: I'll talk about our sponsor this week.

MATT: You want to jump into that? Yeah, so we have a new sponsor coming in, sponsoring this episode of Critical Role this evening.

(cheering)

MATT: So Travis, you want to take it away?

TRAVIS: Our amazing sponsor this week is Backblaze. Backblaze is an amazing, unlimited cloud backup company for your Mac and PC, for just five dollars a month, it's incredible. We have an amazing representative from Backblaze in the studio. He's a crazy, crazy uber-fan. Yev, wave to me baby, blow me a kiss. He's incredible.

LAURA: You should check out his Twitter page because he has printed out Flat Mercer and he's chronicling his adventures, and I'm pretty proud of it.

TRAVIS: Yes! We're on you, we're talking about Backblaze right now.

SAM: Hey guys. Backblaze is a great service.

(laughter)

SAM: It offers unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. They're supporting the show tonight. I was saying this in the car on the way over.

(laughter)

MATT: Well, please continue, we're not stopping you.

SAM: Guys, no shit, I just installed it yesterday on my home computer. It's currently backing up right now. It's an online file backup system for all your stuff. Your documents, your media, your Critical Role fanart, your videos of Scanlan singing things. There's no gimmicks or additional charges, it's just five dollars a month, and! You don't want to go to Backblaze.com, you want to go to backblaze.com/criticalrole, where you can get a fully-featured 15-day trial.

TRAVIS: How many days, Sam?

SAM: 15 days, free! If you like it, keep getting it, pay five bucks a month, that's nothing. Or if you don't, whatever, it doesn't bother me. But it's only for Critters, and also if you go to backblaze.com/criticalrole right now, you'll see pictures of us, quotes from us. It's actually really cute.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it was pretty cute.

SAM: And I am such a supporter of these guys that I even wrote a song for them.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: It's very short. Okay.

MATT: Please, go ahead.

SAM: (singing) I'm backing up in Backblaze of glory! Take me now, download the truth. I'm backing up– okay, that's it.

(cheering)

SAM: I need a drink now.

MATT: You did good Sam, you did good.

LAURA: There's some Guinness in the fridge.

MATT: It's been cool having sponsors come to the show, partially because they all come to us from being fans of the actual show, and that's the driving force behind this, so we want to make sure that things are on-brand from people who are genuinely interested in our community and have things to offer that'll be useful. I can say this as I have a web series I directed many years ago and spent a whole year doing, I lost all the files because of the hard drive that I had– the external hard drive failed, and I don't have any of those anymore. And so since then I've been very, very careful about backing everything up. So this service would have been really helpful back then. So don't make the same mistakes I did. There Will Be Brawl only lives as final video files. It kills me. I couldn't even fix stuff. Still have the watermark on the last three videos for the Escapist that I can't remove. Anyway. Learn from my mistakes. So! Do we have anything else any of you folks want to announce?

LAURA: E3's next week!

MATT: E3 is next week.

LAURA: Oh wait, no it's not. It's two weeks from now.

MATT: No, it's two weeks from now.

LAURA: It's two weeks from now. I'm sorry.

MATT: I believe nothing coming out of that mouth now!

TALIESIN: E3 is two weeks from now, and I'm also going to be at Amazing Comic Con Vegas two weeks from now. And Signal Boost is currently in its second week, which is hilarious, and amazing, and you should totally check it out because it's weird.

MARISHA: Yeah. You're like the most interesting man in the world.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: It's fantastic.

LAURA: I've always thought that about you, Taliesin.

TALIESIN: Oh. Thanks. I'm now… yeah. I'm going to die today, thank you.

(laughter)

LAURA: No you're not!

TRAVIS: Pike's got us covered. Right, Pike?

MATT: All right, great. So, without further ado, and no further delaying the inevitable–

TRAVIS: You got a little something on your–

MATT: Little thing on my nose, right there?

TRAVIS: You might need to go the bathroom, check it out.

MATT: No, it's great. So let's go ahead and roll the intro and start playing Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: So. Continuing where we left off two weeks ago. The intrepid party of adventurers known as Vox Machina, after recently freeing the town of Westruun from being occupied and ruled by the roving Herd of the Storm, which Grog once hailed from, cut down their brutal leader Kevdak and temporarily restored power to a combination of himself and Kevdak's son, Zanror. An accord was made between the two of you to agree to go after and destroy the ancient black dragon Umbrasyl, a member of the Chroma Conclave, and marked for you to eventually destroy anyway, but who had currently made a deal with the Herd in exchange for goods, gold, and ruling over the town, would let them live and be essentially undisturbed, seemingly. You gathered an army, you forged a plan, and an ambush was set for the next time the dragon swooped down from atop the mountain Gatshadow to retrieve its package. At this time, the trap was sprung, the dragon held fast by hooks and chains, a giant metallic trap designed and orchestrated by Percival, and everything was going great. The dragon had sustained quite a bit of damage and seemed to be in a rough place until it broke free and left much of the Herd fallen, dissolving and screaming. Also, Scanlan and Vax Dimension Doored into the inside of the dragon and have spent a number of rounds now deciding how to get out of it maybe?

SAM: Tiny Vax. Tiny Vax.

MATT: Tiny Vax. Thanks to a potion that does that. You managed to go ahead and put in an Immovable Rod within its stomach, which held it up for a moment before it decided to truly gain the advantage it needed to escape the circumstance, allowed it to tear through its body, as well as an arrow that was shot by Vex towards her brother, in hopes of– I don't know, being a signal of hope or to put him out of his misery? I'm still trying to figure it out. At this point in time, Umbrasyl took to the sky and began to coast off towards Gatshadow, seemingly the domain that it's carved for itself in this region. On its way out, Grog had thrown his newly acquired Bloodaxe and his Chain of Returning into the dragon, left it, and is now being dragged behind it now, dangling as it flies off. And that, my friends, is where we kick back into the story.

TRAVIS: That's when they knew they fucked up.

(laughter)

MATT: So we have, as you guys– Grog, your feet leave the ground as you swing forward, unable by the momentum pushing forward to keep up with the sheer speed of this dragon and its size, its mass, its full stretched wings, it is far faster than any of you expected and it whooshes off towards the mountaintop. You, just looking behind as the ground just fades further and further away. The rest of you, Vox Machina, seeing this happen, see essentially half of your friends, your party, only one of them visible, now beyond your reach. With that being said, for this circumstance, let's pick up where we were on the initiative order between you three.

LAURA: Just straight into it!

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I'm ready.

MATT: We left at the right time for that, guys.

LIAM: I cannot feel the lower half of my body.

(laughter)

MATT: Here, how about this? Because I can't find the original initiative order, we'll just say for this circumstance we'll roll initiative based on what action's going to happen here. So we're going to have you three roll initiative.

TRAVIS: Come on, lucky dice. I get advantage on that.

SAM: I got 12.

LIAM: 13.

TRAVIS: 13 also.

LAURA: Oh jeez.

SAM: Starting off right.

MATT: All right. So. As it crests into the sky (whoosh), blackish dragon blood dripping from wounds, you can feel every single tension of its upper torso muscles with each swoop of the wings crushing against you in this rhythmic pattern. What little bit of air currently has been placed at the top of the stomach, based on your Thunderwave, is all you have to maintain any semblance of hope. You, there's an arrow in darkness. However, Umbrasyl at this point, who does go first in this order, is just concentrating on survival and continues gliding upward. You hear a rumble within the inside of the body, and the essence of a growling, angry voice creeps through. “These foul creatures. Get out of me!” (straining sound) I need you guys to both roll strength saving throws right now.

LAURA: He's trying to puke you up?

SAM: Or just crush us.

LIAM: Strength saving? Nine.

SAM: Yeah, not great. 15.

MATT: 15. You manage to put your arms against the side, and using whatever forceful arcane cantrips to keep the walls at bay before it actually finds you, and you slip out in time. You, however, do suffer six points of bludgeoning damage as the muscles once again tense against you. Umbrasyl is very much aware that there are now living things inside the stomach squirming around and as the muscles relax, the voice just growls again, “Try all you want. Don't worry. I can eat you now or later.”

LIAM: Can't hear you.

MATT: So. We had two 13s and a–

SAM: 12.

MATT: 12. All right. So Grog, Vax, what are you guys doing?

LIAM: I'm taking–

MATT: The Bramblewood is now beneath you, you're heading towards the mountain, you can see the edge of the forest now.

TRAVIS: Maybe I go first, just in case something–

LIAM: Yeah, go for it.

TRAVIS: The Bramblewood? I'm holding on, right? With the Titanstone Knuckles. Whereabouts is the axe lodged? Can I see where the chain is attached to?

MATT: You can see it curving up ahead of you and with how high the sun is in the sky, it's around noon, there's a heavy bit of shadow, and at this distance? Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: (laughs) That went one and then a 13. Minus– zero. 13.

MATT: 13. It seems to be somewhere around the base of the tail, like where the tail meets the rest of the actual body itself, the torso area.

LAURA: It's in his butt.

MATT: No, it's not quite in his butt, it's more in his side.

TRAVIS: How high am I?

MATT: Looking down? Numbers are hard for you to pick up. It's a long way.

TRAVIS: A long way.

MATT: It's a long way. Like– yeah.

TRAVIS: Well. Only one way to go. And that's up. I would like to try and pull myself up the chain towards Umbrasyl.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Athletics or strength?

MATT: Athletics. Which is better, technically.

LAURA: It's a strength saving thing, so–

MATT: Yeah, it's strength plus your proficiency bonus.

TRAVIS: Oh! I get an advantage or?

MATT: You get your proficiency bonus. You're no longer raging, because this is more fear-struck at this point.

TRAVIS: Oh, 14 plus five– 19.

MATT: 19, yeah. You begin to ascend the chain. You get closer to it, and you can now see the axe itself is embedded and is starting to wiggle and pull out. So you're making your way up the chain with the full round at this point, you're almost to it, but that's going to be the rest of your action this turn.

TRAVIS: Yeah, okay!

MATT: So what are you doing?

LIAM: I'm taking the dragon sword and I am shoving it along the angle of the arrow that's coming in toward it, to try to go parallel.

MATT: Okay. The arrowhead is still poking through–

LIAM: Through, and I'm sending it along that line.

MATT: Okay, okay. All right. Go ahead and make a general dexterity check. To see if you're able to–

LIAM: Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: Okay. Using the essence of where the actual shaft of the arrow has pierced the hide and is stuck through, you take the blade and use your understanding of precision weapons and implements to find the slight opening. And the blade thankfully is very thin. Slide it through with minimal resistance. You can see the muscles are still pushing against it, but the already preset wound from the arrow does guide it through, and you manage to go straight to the hilt, and it's found its way all the way through the wound. No additional damage is dealt necessarily, but it has gone–

LIAM: This does not count as an attack on the creature?

MATT: You said you wanted to put it through an existing hole.

LIAM: The hole is this thick.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Like a straw, and the blade is this, that's not piercing damage? There's no piercing damage. Whatever you want.

MATT: Do you want to roll an attack for this?

LIAM: Yes, I want it to be an attack.

MATT: Right, now you would make the attack as the blade. The idea being that you wanted to guide it through the hole.

LIAM: I'm going to use one of my Lucks. I've got two left. Better.

MATT: Didn't you use any Luck for the battle?

LIAM: I used one last time.

MATT: Right, so you have two left.

LIAM: 12 plus strength, which is low, is 14. The dragon sword– is the dragon sword plus anything, guys? I don't know that I have the–

MATT: Plus one.

LIAM: Plus one. All right.

MATT: Yeah, and then it does additional damage against dragons.

LIAM: Oh, and I have to roll– I'll just say I missed. For my bonus action, I'm going to slide the dagger up along the same line and try to widen that gap.

MATT: Okay. This roll will be at disadvantage.

LIAM: The last one was too, which is why I just scrubbed it.

MATT: Right, right, right. Go ahead and make the secondary attack.

LIAM: No.

MATT: Yeah. Okay, so, the blade is in there and it has found its way through the existing wound, but you don't quite have the strength to actually wrench it enough to do any real, serious damage as it is a very, very hardy and well-defended creature from its natural mass. The fleshy interior of a dragon is almost as dense and as protected as the armored hide on the outside, and that's one thing you weren't counting on when entering its form.

LIAM: And what did I just do, though, with the dragon sword, did I widen the hole?

MATT: You've put the blade through the hole and so now you have that blade lodged in, you can then use that to try and widen it in successive turns in itself and that will prevent you from having disadvantage on the attacks with that blade going forward, because it's already in a soft place and you can just wedge it, but it's going to be a strength attack for each of those rounds. The dagger unfortunately, you just can't find any purchase at that point there in the time given, because of the movement and the squishing. You do also suffer an additional seven points of crushing damage.

LIAM: Okay, and I forgot. One other thing I want to do– I have movement too, can I use my legs to push as hard as I can forward a foot or something? I know with movement over difficult terrain it's halved, and I'm in the most difficult terrain.

MATT: You are in the most difficult terrain there probably is.

LIAM: But if I use my movement could I shove and go like a foot towards the outside, half a foot or anything?

MATT: Pushing towards the wound?

LIAM: Pushing in. Using my legs to go–

MATT: Okay. I would say that would be part of your attack next round. Actual movement within, you would be able to move a few feet but you'd have to release the blade to do so. Any actual blade pushing forward would be your next action, so hold off for the next round. Scanlan, what you got?

SAM: Oi. So I'm in a beast. As we all know, intestines are my favoured terrain–

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I remember him saying that years ago!

MATT: This is true!

LAURA: Back when we first made these characters, I remember you saying that.

SAM: So I held up that rod, clicked it, and then it was pulled out of the body pretty close to where I am right now. When it went, did I see air? Did I see daylight, when it went out of there?

MATT: It was very small. It's the equivalent of a bullet going through, because the rod when it punched through it didn't– it's a very thin, elongated object, so it pierced through like a metal rod at a very high speed.

LIAM: So the dragon got very lucky and it went through like that, and not like that.

MATT: If it would have hit– at whatever angle it would be, even then, it's only that wide and it would still puncture a tiny slit, and due to the density of both the muscles of the creature and its body, it took damage and there's a little bit of blood coming from the wound, you imagine, but it's not like it's going to leave an open, cavernous hole.

SAM: It's a cut.

MATT: Yeah, it's a cut.

SAM: Got it.

MATT: But you did see where it (tearing noise) through.

SAM: And when it went out, I didn't see any daylight or anything. Just disappeared.

MATT: You just saw it (tearing noise) through the creature's stomach. You do see a little bit of blood beginning to pour out of where the wound was.

SAM: Okay. Oh boy.

TRAVIS: Do it, baby.

SAM: I don't know, I got nothing. All right, I'll just try something and we'll see if it works and then I'll try something else next time. I won't die in one round, right? I'm going to Polymorph into a Tri– not-a-ceratops. Into a small, poisonous snake.

MATT: Okay!

SAM: And I'm going to go straight into that wound.

MATT: Okay, well, before that happens you do take four points of acid damage from the stomach before you take the form, because that would be the top of the round. So, at which point you turn into a small poisonous snake, now floating amongst the acids, and find your way along the surface. And you're heading towards the wound?

SAM: I'm going into the wound.

MATT: Okay, all right–

SAM: With a swim speed of 30!

MATT: Right, you do.

(laughter)

MATT: Let me check.

SAM: But I don't know if it's swimming, it's more squeezing.

MATT: Through the acid, it's swimming. Once you get to the actual wound, this is more squeezing. And that's going to be more of a strength-based element. So that being the case here, a poisonous snake, I'm going to need you to go ahead and roll a strength check to push against the wound.

SAM: Sure, man. This is a strong snake.

LAURA: Really?

SAM: Natural one.

(laughter)

MATT: Which, just as a heads up, is a minus four to its strength, so that's technically a negative three.

SAM: (bink) Going well, guys!

MATT: Yeah. You just dive in headfirst and with all your snaky might, you slither and slither and slither, just getting nowhere. No headway. This is bad.

(laughter)

LIAM: Why don't you bite it, dude?

SAM: Oh yeah! Sure, I'll take a bite.

LIAM: Poisonous bite.

MATT: Sure, go for it. Roll for an attack.

SAM: 14 plus– I have no idea.

MATT: Plus five.

SAM: Hey! That's a 19. That doesn't hit.

MATT: A 19? The inside of the stomach is not as well-armored as outer parts of the body. A 19 would hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

SAM: What do I roll?

MATT: This would be– oh no, you don't roll. It takes one piercing damage.

(laughter)

SAM: Guys, we knocked it down a point!

MATT: And it has to make a constitution saving throw versus your poison. That's an eight plus 14, at a DC of ten. So yeah, it doesn't take any additional– oh, it takes half damage. So go ahead and roll 2d4.

SAM: Ooh! Seven.

MATT: It takes three points of poison damage.

(laughter)

SAM: And it is considered grappled. Okay. Plan A, cross it off the list.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Top of the round. Okay, so, Umbrasyl is still flying up, looking down at its form, is glancing about…

TRAVIS: Don't see me! Don't see me!

LAURA: You're in its butt. How can it see you?

MATT: Grog. As you're holding onto the axe, you see before you, just pass underneath the leg and the front arms that are reaching down, this giant, dark, looming projection comes down and looks right towards you. The horned front of the dragon as Umbrasyl stares right into your face and goes, “There you are.” (draws in breath, exhales) And unleashes a torrent of acid towards you. I need you to go ahead and make– this is going to roll a dexterity saving throw. You have disadvantage.

TRAVIS: I do?

MATT: Because you're currently holding onto the chain, but I believe you have advantage on them because you are a barbarian.

TRAVIS: I have Danger Sense. So just one roll?

MATT: Yeah. So just roll.

TRAVIS: That's not great. 11.

ASHLEY: Can I– do I see them?

MATT: No! They are way over– they're like a tiny little dragon speck in the distance. We'll get to you guys here in just a moment, but their situation is a little more dire and immediate, so I have to figure out what's going on with them right now.

LAURA: What if we could've chased after them? Right away?

MATT: You can if you want to. Did you want to go after them?

LAURA and TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: I would have chased after them, immediately, when it took off.

MATT: Okay, we'll get to that in just a minute. As it is– the dragon's speed is it can fly 80 feet per round.

LAURA: That's really fast, though.

MATT: Yeah, and it's making double-dash manoeuvring here, even at your fly speed on the broom–

LAURA: What do great eagles have? Giant eagles, I think, have really fast speed too.

MATT: Let's check that real fast. Giant eagles–

MARISHA: 80.

MATT: 80 feet. So the eagles are able to keep up. Do you want something that way?

LAURA: So, if the eagles were to pick up somebody–

MATT: First off, Grog, you take 62 points of acid damage.

TRAVIS: Nice.

LAURA: Wait, you have acid resis– no, you don't, because Keyleth– it went away.

TRAVIS: It went away?

LAURA: Yeah, remember? Because she used–

MATT: She took damage and it dropped.

MARISHA: I took damage, I'm sorry. It wasn't my fault. I lost concentration. Blame the dragon that did 40 damage.

MATT: So, as the stream pours past you, you feel your flesh burning, and elements of your skin are actually sloughing off and plummeting beneath you like a thick oatmeal.

LAURA: Gross!

MATT: You still maintain your grip on the axe through sheer force of anger and willpower. Umbrasyl slows down a little bit in not doing the double-dash maneuver. That's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. So you sent the eagles after–

LAURA: Well no, I wanted the eagles to pick up Pike and Percy.

MATT: So the eagles swing by–

MARISHA: Wait, not yet. Stone! Stone!

TALIESIN: Throw her the teleport stone!

ASHLEY: Gatestone! I pull it out of my bag. Pass it to her.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hop on an eagle.

LAURA: I literally am sending the eagles as this is happening and I dash out of the tree on my broom, and go for the Immovable Rod, just long enough to stop and grab it and keep taking off after the dragon.

MATT: Okay, so you retrieve the rod, grab it, and head off in that direction. So we now have both of you, on eagle-back, heading off, with you trailing behind as you can't quite travel at the same speed as the eagles.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and clear my gun while I'm up there, too.

MATT: Okay. Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: You've got a ride. Animal handling. I'm going to drop and I'll start focusing on the Gatestone.

TALIESIN: So, situated, I'm just going to try and clear the gun and see if it's an easy fix.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Nope. Gun's broken.

LAURA: It's broken?

TALIESIN: Yeah, gun's broken. I've got another gun, but big gun's broken.

MATT: Yeah, Bad News is out. All right. As you're flying off you're having a hard time with the bumpy ride, as this eagle also has been near death due to being partially dissolved by the acidic attack from the dragon before. It wasn't the acid, it was something else that wrecked it.

LAURA: No, it was a bite or a claw.

MATT: Yeah, I think it was a bite or a claw, because the acid would've destroyed it. So the eagle's heavily wounded, and due to it shuddering and trying to keep up it just causes you to end up bending a portion of the actual weapon.

TALIESIN: Damn it. I put it away.

MATT: All right. So you guys are keeping up. You're concentrating on the stone.

MARISHA: One minute, baby.

MATT: Bringing us back now. Grog, you're recovering from this attack.

TRAVIS: I look down and I see my beautiful body tattoos melting away like instant oatmeal. Not even like the nice apples and cinnamon kind, it's like the maple brown sugar that no one–

LAURA: That's my favorite kind of oatmeal.

TRAVIS: Nobody likes that; you're alone in this. And it makes me so angry that I go into a rage?

MATT: Do recall, you do have one point of exhaustion since your frenzied rage did wear off beforehand.

TRAVIS: Right, yeah.

MATT: So you go into a rage.

LAURA: Oh but we have Heroes' Feast, is that good?

MATT: It doesn't help with that, no.

TRAVIS: All right. So I go in a rage, and I would like to try and continue climbing up the remainder of the distance to Umbrasyl.

MATT: Okay. Athletics check, with advantage.

TRAVIS: That was a one.

LAURA: Oh, that's way better!

TRAVIS: That's much better. That's a 29.

MATT: You find your way up, grabbing onto the edge of the tail, and you actually pull yourself up onto the base of the tail. You're on the back of Umbrasyl right now. The chain is still currently attached to its side.

MARISHA: Khaleesi!

TRAVIS: Mother of dragons! Do I have any more movement?

MATT: It's taken your whole turn to really get up there. Are you going to dislodge the Bloodaxe, or leave it there?

TRAVIS: I'm going to dislodge it, because it was already so weak.

MATT: Okay, so go ahead and make your check to remove it. It's a DC 12, I think.

TRAVIS: That's a one. Yep.

MATT: You pull on the chain, but the reason it managed to hold your weight this whole ride up was it was wedged pretty well into its armored hide. And thank god it did. However, at this point, it's proving that that is now coming back to haunt you, as it is really hard to pull it from where it's stuck in the dragon. That's going to be the end of your turn. Vax.

LIAM: First turn I'm going to use the dragon blade to attack and slice downward and try to wedge that hole open a little bigger.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: That hits. Well, I don't know if it hits. Nine plus my strength for this sword, right, not dexterity?

MATT: Correct. I'm letting this one be a finesse.

LIAM: I probably hit him before. So that's a 25.

MATT: 25? You carve an opening in the side about a foot and a half in full length there. As you drag it you hear a roaring. Go ahead and roll damage on that.

TALIESIN: It's 1d8 plus your dex–

LIAM: Yeah, I know, I got that written down, thank you. 16.

MATT: 16? All righty.

LIAM: And then, this is a game rules thing. Grog's within five feet of this thing and I'm no longer at disadvantage. Or am I?

MATT: This is less rules and more narrative. You don't understand the body or where you really are in the body of the dragon. He's not threatening the creature right now. If anything, it's potentially threatening you. This would not be a sneak attack.

LIAM: I'm not arguing, I'm asking what's possible.

MATT: No worries.

LIAM: I'll use the dagger to hit. Am I at disadvantage with the dagger still?

MATT: I'd say yes, because the only reason you didn't have disadvantage with the other blade is because it was within an existing wound and then you pulled back.

LIAM: Then I miss.

MATT: Okay, the other dagger, you go ahead and stab again, this time it hits a dense part of muscle and does sink in, but not enough to do any serious damage from the inside.

LIAM: And there's air queefing in and out of this slot?

(laughter)

MATT: A little bit, yes. It's about that wide. You staying there?

LIAM: Yes. No. I'm going to slide my body and try to stick head and dagger arm out of it and hang half in and half out, if possible.

MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and make a straight strength check.

LIAM: 13.

MATT: 13? That's fine. Thankfully, the DC's lower because you managed to carve the large wound in. You plant your feet against the other muscle wall that you are between and you push off and get yourself through. And in the most awkward, tiny birth, just above your armpits, your head and arm emerge out the side. Immediately a gust of wind hits your hand as you realize and look down: you are hundreds of feet above the ground. Bramblewood right beneath you. But you are partially out of the dragon.

LAURA: You can breathe!

LIAM: (gasps for air)

MATT: Take a deep breath. You take three points of crushing damage as the muscle walls around you are still squeezing in on you in your current placement. That ends your turn. You! At the top of your round, your snake takes acid damage. Only one point of acid damage. How many hit points does your poisonous snake have?

SAM: I don't think he has very many.

MATT: It may have less than one hit point, in which case, you're just going to turn right back into Scanlan.

SAM: I think he's dead.

MATT: Let's find out. It has two hit points!

SAM: Oh god! Oh no, but wait, I took damage last round, too.

MATT: That was before you transformed. It was at the top of your round.

SAM: Hey, I'm still a snake!

(laughter)

SAM: Well, I'm not going to try that any more. If I drop form, is that my whole round?

MATT: No, you just let it go.

SAM: I'm going to drop the snake. Snake was a try and fail.

MATT: It was a good idea. Just not a very strong snake.

SAM: I drop the snake, try to get that little bubble of air (gasps), and I'll fucking cast Bigby's Hand.

MATT: Okay! So, using that little pocket of air, you bring your hand up, you do your quick somatic components, shouting the phrase, and Bigby's Hand appears and is currently being squished between some of the walls of the stomach.

SAM: Can he move at all?

MATT: Yeah!

SAM: Okay. I would like to fist the wound. Jam it, find a finger and– how you like that?

TALIESIN: You're fingering the wound. Okay!

(laughter)

SAM: This wound will never heal.

MATT: I don't– yeah.

(laughter)

SAM: So would it be a forceful hand?

MATT: This would be a very forceful hand. This would be the definition of Bigby's Forceful Hand. Go ahead and roll an athletics check for Bigby, which is strength 28, so add plus eight to the roll.

SAM: 12?!

MATT: Total of 12?

SAM: Yes!

MATT: The finger pushes partway in and gets about halfway up to its second knuckle.

(laughter)

MATT: It is just chilling right there.

SAM: This is so embarrassing! Wow!

(laughter)

MATT: I'm blushing, man!

LIAM: All about phrasing.

SAM: Wow! Okay!

MATT: All right, that's your turn.

SAM: I have movement, right?

MATT: You do have movement, yes.

SAM: I can't move anywhere! I have climbing stuff with me. Can I move my arms at all?

MATT: You can move your arms, yeah.

SAM: I would like to take out a grappling hook and grab onto the inside lining of the stomach.

MATT: Okay, make a strength check.

SAM: Nope! Six!

MATT: Six. You take it and (ting, swish). It just slips along the very heavy mucous material lined interior of the stomach. There's a little scrape line, but that's about it.

SAM: I can't do anything! It's great.

MATT: Top of Umbrasyl's round. Breath weapon does not return. However, is going to use one of its legendary actions and attempt to beat its wings to shake you off of it, Grog.

LAURA: Are you raging?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: Which I have advantage on. 18.

MATT: 18. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage, which is reduced by half, so you're only taking seven. However, you are knocked prone.

TRAVIS: (laughing) On his back.

MATT: Yes, which causes you to begin tumbling off the back of the tail. The wind of it– (thump thump)

TRAVIS: Shit!

MATT: The chain of returning is still attached to you, however, and as you go tumbling off the back of the tail, it catches you, and you are now swinging towards the back of the creature, of the dragon now, back where you started. Only the dragon is very aware of your presence. But you didn't plummet to your death!

TRAVIS: That's good!

MATT: That was the end of your turn. Now it's the top of Umbrasyl's turn.

SAM: These dragons are hard to kill!

MATT: Yeah, imagine that! At this point, now, as this has gone on for a little while as you guys began to ascend and it went upward, it's now partway up the mountainside. You can see the forest has gotten more sparse. There are trees scattered across the top of the mountaintop.

LIAM: We're close to Gatshadow already?

MATT: You can see it. You're not there, but it's going across the forest top and it's coming towards the actual mountain base. It hasn't quite ascended it completely.

LAURA: What about giant eagles with people on them?

MATT: They're keeping in tandem with it. They're not able to quite catch up entirely, just due to the nature of the fast dragon.

LIAM: Arrow range?

MATT: Not for her, unfortunately, no.

TALIESIN: We're not within 400 feet of it, are we?

MATT: You, at this point, jumping on, would just be on the outside of the range if you wanted to try. You're at disadvantage on these attacks because you are on the back of a flying, wounded bird.

LAURA: Don't let the bird get hit by Umbrasyl!

TALIESIN: Fuck it. Taking a shot. At least taking one shot to see what happens. Ooh yeah. Natural 20.

MATT: With disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Do it again.

TALIESIN: 18, that'll do. 27 to hit.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Oh, and he still has– no, I lost Hex.

MATT: You lost Hex, yeah.

LIAM: You're doing great, de Rolo, come on! Keep your head in the game.

TALIESIN: 14 points of damage.

MATT: Gun goes off. You hear a whizz go by your ear as the bullet hits the side of Umbrasyl. (grunting) The head looks back towards the rest of you, now approaching at a distance.

LAURA: Do not let the bird get hit! You will plummet to your fucking death.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend the rest of my attack pushing the eagle down to fly at tree level.

MATT: So, at the top of Umbrasyl's turn, as you guys are pushing forward and you're still concentrating, the dragon growls under its breath. (spellcasting) You can't hear it. You're too far away.

ASHLEY: She can read lips!

LAURA: I'm so far away! I just want to know what he's saying.

MATT: The outer view of the dragon shimmers for a second and then vanishes from sight.

LIAM: Are we visible?

MATT: No.

LIAM: We're not like Wonder Woman inside the jet? What about my hand hanging out?

MATT: Yeah. You see the dragon.

SAM: What about Grog?

MATT: Grog is dangling from nothing right now. Grog is kiting through the air.

TALIESIN: You have Hunter's Mark.

ASHLEY: So we can see Grog?

MATT: In theory, yeah, if you can keep a bead on him.

TRAVIS: I'm enlarged.

MATT: A very heavy Grog.

LAURA: Is he Hunter's Marked still–

MATT: He would be. You haven't taken a lot of damage yet, or at all.

LAURA: I haven't taken any damage.

MATT: Then you still have Hunter's Mark on him, yeah. Continues upward. That comes to the next part. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I had one question. I drank that Potion of Speed. It hastes me for a minute. How many rounds is a minute?

MATT: That has gone away, unfortunately.

TRAVIS: Well, there's nothing to do but to climb back up the chain!

MATT: Make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Up the chain! Fucking weiner snap. 15.

MATT: 15? All righty. You manage to pull yourself halfway up the chain. You get back to where you were towards the base of the tail. That's the extent of your round there. The wind resistance itself, you can see the axe itself, after you tried to tug it forward, did bring it a little loose. So its position is still a little precarious.

TRAVIS: Might as well say something cool. I can do this all day! I'm really not confident.

MATT: All right. Vax.

LIAM: I would like to use my movement, if I can, with the blade I used to go this way, and I cut a big foot-long thing. I want to try to use my movement to reverse the direction of the blade and stab inward.

MATT: It would be part of the attack to draw it out and attack. It wouldn't use your movement. It would be part of the attack to draw it out and attack with it. It wouldn't use your movement.

LIAM: My dagger hand's the one that's out. I want to try to maneuver the sword around and stab inward and keep cutting bacon in here. I want to attack the dragon, but still from the inside with the hand that's inside.

MATT: Okay. You're in a weird position now where the blade's at your side, so pulling away from the body, there's very little strength to pull that way, since you punched through the wound. So you're essentially holding the blade right here.

LIAM: Then if I did this, can I just continue to saw in the same direction and do an attack?

MATT: You'd be at a disadvantage on it.

LIAM: Visual. I don't know what I'm seeing.

MATT: You stabbed through, you cut a wound. Holding that blade, you punched through, and the thickness is about most of your body's length. So most of your body is still in the wound. You've just barely pushed through, and you're still holding the blade back this way. There's no real strength to attack from this position because you're being squished.

LIAM: Then I'm going to attack at disadvantage with the dragon blade, and then I'm going to stab with the dagger that's outside.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Dragon blade on the inside rolled a 15.

MATT: 15?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: There's just not enough strength to get it though. You try and pull upward and the blade comes loose, comes towards your body, but doesn't actually find any additional part of the muscle to cut through.

LIAM: Dagger on the outside is 21.

MATT: 21? Just scrapes across the hide. Not strong enough to pierce it from the outside. You do also take one point of bludgeoning damage as the wound tenses around you once more. Scanlan!

SAM: For my bonus action, I'm going to fist the dragon again! Just going to jam it in there!

MATT: Roll an athletics check with plus eight.

SAM: 20!

MATT: 20! The hand pushes into the wound, causing it to tear open and rupture part of the stomach. As it punches through, temporarily leaving an open wound in the side of its stomach area, Bigby's Hand is partially outside the dragon now.

SAM: Great!

MATT: It takes 11 points of damage from the wound. And you currently have a little bit of light that's visible before the wound closes.

SAM: Before the wound closes.

MATT: The muscles re-tense. You watch it punch through and everything (gasp). It's the moment of impact.

SAM: I'm going to jump in the hole.

MATT: You leap in after Bigby's Hand just in the wake of it slamming into the side of the muscle of the stomach walls. In that one moment, you're rushing past, you can feel the actual muscles tensing behind you. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Dexterity saving throw. 18!

MATT: 18! Okay! You manage to leap behind Bigby's Hand and grab onto the side of it as the hand punches entirely out of the dragon's body, the wound slamming shut behind.

SAM: Oh god, I'm outside the dragon?!

MATT: You are now outside the dragon.

SAM: (screams) Shit!

MATT: Holding onto Bigby's Hand.

SAM: Is he flying? Does he stay still? What does he do?

MATT: He is flying.

SAM: He can fly?!

MATT: Bigby's Hand!

SAM: Not as fast as the dragon.

MATT: Bigby's Hand can move up to 60 feet, so no, it's slower than the dragon. Starting to drag a little bit behind as it's moving.

SAM: God. Okay! Hand can't do anything else, right?

MATT: No, that was its action. That's most of your turn, really, at this point. That was your movement to push through after the bonus attack, so you have your action. I'll give you your action.

SAM: You're not going to let me cast another spell, probably.

MATT: You have an action, so you could, technically. You look out as you punch through. You look down below you suddenly after you take a moment to look, and you can see part of Vax emerging from the side of the dragon. And then the whole dragon and Vax vanish.

SAM: Oh shit! Wait, I see Grog?

MATT: You do see Grog, dangling from the chain, slowly pulling his way up towards the back.

TRAVIS: (screaming) Scanlan!

SAM: I'm holding onto the hand?

TRAVIS: (screaming) What the fuck?!

MATT: You are now right there with Bigby's Hand.

(laughter)

SAM: The Hand can't do anything else.

MATT: Not this turn, no.

SAM: Shit. I just got out of the dragon. I don't know what's going on. I didn't even know we were flying. I'm just going to shoot a Lightning Bolt at him.

MATT: Okay!

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Advantage on the dexterity saving throw. What's the DC of it? The DC of the Lightning Bolt?

SAM: It's my spell. It's not through the Hand Cone, I assume.

MATT: Nope, you are clutching both hands onto the side.

SAM: 18.

MATT: 18. It makes the save. Roll damage, and it takes half damage.

SAM: 26.

MATT: 26. All right, so it takes 13 points of lightning damage. (blast) The bolt streaks upward, hitting the sides of the wound that you just came out of it, and arcs up the side of the body. Most of it is absorbed from the hefty, scaled hide of the black dragon, but it does (unhappy groan) roil with pain. You hear it yelling, and with a very slight shifting of light, you notice the dragon is still there, and you recognize this. This is an Invisibility spell. That ends your turn.

SAM: I guess so.

MATT: So, the rest of you guys, trying to keep up. The dragon's far out of range of anything you have, and it's just seems to be coasting as fast as it can out of the way, so you have nothing, I don't think, that can really go past a 300, 400 foot range. So you're just keeping on that eagle, holding on. You as well, you're behind the others, just slowly falling behind.

LAURA: How fast can my broom go?

MATT: I think it's 50 feet. I can look it up again real fast. It's not a racing broom. Quidditch broom. I'll find it for you.

LAURA: And my boots of haste don't do shit to a broom.

MATT: I'm going to look it up right now, just to let you know, so we can all relax.

TRAVIS: It's the fastest model yet! I love Harry Potter.

MATT: I gather that.

(laughter)

MATT: I love it, too. Broom of Flying. Flying speed is 50 feet. You can't even see it now. Grog's just become this little speck in the distance. All right, so as that's going on, are you doing anything?

TALIESIN: I'm going to keep my eyes peeled on what I can see and try to keep up as best I can at treeline, like below.

MATT: Back to the top of the round. The dragon, Umbrasyl, now (wings flapping). Even you are being dragged behind nothing, you can hear the wings beating. You still have full sight of the dragon at this point. The voice growls out of its throat, “Fine. Let's see how well you hold on, insects!” It begins to spin and do a barrel roll. I need both of you, as also its muscles tense, to roll strength saving throws.

TRAVIS: I have advantage on those.

LIAM: Six.

MATT: Six?

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: 26. You get swung around, the chain taking the brunt of all the weight across its back. (popping) Comes free. Thankfully, you were in an up arc, but you are now arcing in the air. You also get ejected from the wound from the muscles tensing behind, it almost squeezes you out. Before you can even get a grapple on, the dragon vanishes from sight and you're now falling backwards.

LIAM: I'd like take a chance to say, here, that when I went into this dragon, I was lost, and a wanderer. As I am shat out its side, I come forth a paladin of the Raven Queen. I have multiclassed and leveled up. And the last thing I'm thinking as I shoot out this hole in its side is: if you have any wings to lend me, now is the time.

MATT: Okay. As you emerge from the body of Umbrasyl, there is a streak of shadow that scatters into a burst of darkened raven feathers that fill the air around you. You still plummet, but as a nature of your prayer, that brief moment of understanding, it appears there is some reaction. That'll be that element there.

MARISHA: Where am I in my minute?

MATT: Oh, you're like 20 seconds in. 30 seconds in.

ASHLEY: Are they all falling?

MATT: You guys now watch as, suddenly, Grog and Vax just (rush of air). Vax appears out of nowhere and is falling. Scanlan's being held aloft by a distant Bigby's Hand, and Grog is arcing in the air. At that point now, Grog, Vax, what are you doing as you're falling backward?

TRAVIS: I take out a case of fancy wine and–

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I pull out a fancy robe, of which there are two, and pull it out. I'm going to drop the Bloodaxe. I'm going to grab both ends of the fancy robe and just make the shittiest parachute of all time.

MATT: (air puffs)

TRAVIS: There ain't much else to do.

MARISHA: Shitty G.I. Joes.

MATT: Yeah, it's like 25 cent quality, above you, Grog, as you squeeze your eyes and hold on. Plummeting down towards the Bramblewood. Vax.

LIAM: Hey, I'm a brand new paladin. Lay on Hands, which is going to do fuck all for me, but is that a bonus action?

MATT: I believe it's an action.

LIAM: An action? Okay. I'm going to cast Lay on Hands on myself. And I'm going throw my poison dagger at the dragon as I fall. That's a 23.

MATT: 23 does hit.

LIAM: That is ten points of damage with poison on it. It's a DC of 15 for poison. I'm sure it makes it.

MATT: Yeah, it makes it. It would've had to roll a one to not make it, unfortunately.

TRAVIS: Could I add one bonus thing at the end of mine?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: Can I see Scanlan and Bigby's Hand at all? Or is the world just a clusterfuck?

MATT: Make a perception check, just glancing around you.

TRAVIS: Four.

MATT: Four. No. You see earth beneath you, sky above, mountain to your left, and the inevitable plummet coming at you.

LIAM: I'm thinking about my mother as I fall backward through space.

SAM: Distance between me and them?

MATT: Vax is about 20 feet from you, Grog's about 60, 70 feet from you.

SAM: What's the range of– shit.

TALIESIN: 50 feet.

TRAVIS: Remember, we're going to be going the same direction.

MARISHA: They're both falling, yeah. Vax will hit the ground first.

SAM: Vax will?

TRAVIS: I'm higher.

MATT: The dragon's moved ahead to this point now since you guys have fallen off.

SAM: Is anyone higher than me?

MATT: Grog is. Vax is a little bit below you.

SAM: And he's not flying or anything, is he?

MATT: He's trying. He's holding a scrap piece of fabric that's just (rustling fabric).

TRAVIS: I've seen Percy make shit, I can do it, too! (blows puffs of air)

TALIESIN: You're doing very well. You're doing very well.

SAM: Wow. This didn't go well.

MARISHA: I'm hoping you can hold on for a minute.

SAM: Okay. Yeah! I'm going to drop Bigby's– 60 feet is not plummeting speed? I can't catch up to them as they fall?

MATT: Right now, you could catch up to one of them.

SAM: All right. Because Grog is over me, right?

MATT: Yeah, Grog is in an arc, so you would have to meet him as he fell.

SAM: I'll try to catch him then.

MATT: Okay, so you clutch onto Bigby's Hand and move as he plummets.

SAM: Shit, wait. Wait.

MATT: What are you doing? What are you doing, Scanlan?

SAM: Shit. Vax is below me, though.

LIAM: He said you can get to one of them, so it's just a Sophie's Choice.

SAM: It's a Sophie's Choice.

MARISHA: But who's on the lowest hit points?

SAM: Yeah, I would go for Grog if he's above me, with the hand.

MATT: Okay. The hand comes forward, sends out this cupping motion, the fingers below. You, eyes closed, clenching tight, (impact). All of a sudden, the wind stops, and it's like you're being held by your mother again, a memory you haven't recalled since you were a child. You open your eyes slowly, and you're still above the ground! Holy shit! But there's a giant purple hand around you and a very freaked out Scanlan clutching the outside.

TRAVIS: Look what you did!

SAM: Hi, friend. Shit. We've got to go to Vax. I'll start moving us slowly down, I guess.

MATT: That was the turn to even get to him and catch him.

SAM: Then– fuck.

MATT: You still have an action if you have anything.

SAM: I can't see the dragon anymore, right?

MATT: No. You have a vague idea of where it might be.

MARISHA: Do you still have Polymorph?

SAM: Yeah, concentration.

MARISHA: Fuck.

SAM: Yep. I mean, I can make Grog deaf so he won't hear us die.

(laughter)

MATT: That's useful.

TALIESIN: That seems like a really good use.

SAM: I got Grog. Fuck. Okay. I'm going to drop Bigby's Hand and Polymorph Grog into an eagle.

MATT: Okay. So, as you look over at Scanlan, with a big look of relief and thank you, he gives you a cursory look as the hand vanishes.

TRAVIS: What. What?! (screams)

SAM: Holding on to him!

MATT: He grabs you real fast, and suddenly you have feathers! What the shit! And, strangely, you become smarter! As giant eagles have an intelligence of eight.

LIAM: Quick, come up with a plan!

TRAVIS: It's a new day, baby.

SAM: His brain is just geometry.

MATT: It's a Beautiful Mind moment in the middle of the sky. Suddenly you understand, the instinct hits you, and (whoosh). You have wings. You feel Scanlan's tiny hands grasping the back of your neck.

SAM: And I just yell at him, dive, motherfucker, dive!

TRAVIS: (caw)

MATT: All right. You guys start seeing this happen in the distance and a little sparkle of hope hits you, whatever it may be. Coming back around to the top, Umbrasyl is taking a double dash motion. He's past.

LIAM: He got away.

MATT: Grog, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: Can I see that flurry of black feathers streaking downwards of this guy?

MATT: You do, and it is a perpetual flurry. They're coming out of nowhere. It is this long, visual line of black feathers that are being tossed from beneath Vax's flapping cape.

TRAVIS: We're going full Point Break terminal velocity, straight down towards Vax.

SAM: I hope I can hold on! There's nothing to grab onto, is there?

MATT: There's just heavy feathers and digging in.

SAM: Luckily, I have a grappling hook. (dink dink dink)

TRAVIS: Maybe in my dive position I could squeeze your legs with my wings, how about that?

LAURA: You're really smart. You would think to do that.

TRAVIS: I would.

ASHLEY: Yeah, you would.

TRAVIS: I would also think, what idiot was just flying behind the back of this dragon on a chain? What a fool.

MATT: So as you go into a full dive, that's 80 speed, that's 160 feet. (whoosh) You manage to just crest underneath the plummeting Vax, the trail of black feathers, trailed by a long line of brown feathers being plucked out from Scanlan, feverishly trying to grab onto your back for some sort of purchase. Pain. You deal with pain all the time. It doesn't dissolve your focus. Vax, I need you to go ahead and attempt to grab onto the eagle as it swoops beneath you. Go ahead and make a single strength saving throw.

LIAM: No, wait, Luck! I have one last Luck.

MATT: This is the time to use it.

LAURA: Oh my god!

LIAM: 21.

MATT: As the eagle swoops underneath you, you reach out. You don't even see it, you're looking up into the sky as you plummet, the trail of feathers going past as you concentrate on the acceptance you've made to the Raven Queen, and the understanding that perhaps, if there is a chance to survive, let it be through this leap of faith you've taken in the direction of an entity that you've been so fearful of and scoffed at since she came to you in your dreams. A moment, you see the feathers begin to trail off and subside from beneath your cloak, and a voice whispers in your ear and says, “Left.” Without thinking, your hand reaches out, without even seeing, and you (impact) grab the edge of Scanlan's cloak.

SAM: Oh no!

MATT: As you're dragged behind, you (choking) from behind.

SAM: It's worth it, it's worth it!

MATT: You can barely breathe as the eagle swoops up, you can feel the heartbeat, the blood flowing in the back of your head, your ears hot (heartbeat) as you slowly reach over and grab the back of the eagle. Is this Keyleth? You don't know. All you know is Scanlan swooped in and in this moment of need, seemingly, a prayer was answered. So what are you guys doing?

LAURA: And you're itty bitty still!

LIAM: I prefer raven-sized.

MATT: Yeah, he's tiny. That's the only reason I'm not having him tear you off the back of the eagle, because of the size.

TRAVIS: Unless I hear otherwise, I'm making a controlled descent towards the ground.

MATT: Okay. You guys see this in the distance as now the eagle captures the falling Vax and then begins to head down towards the base of the mountain where the Bramblewood meets.

LAURA: I guess we head down that direction.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Make the eagle follow.

MATT: Okay. You guys make your way downward towards the bottom. Keyleth, you finish your concentration on the stone. (whoosh) Suddenly, you step through, being pushed through a tunnel of blue light and energy, and for a moment, all you see before you is Vax's face, his tiny little raven-sized face.

MARISHA: So cute!

MATT: (whoosh) As you guys watch Keyleth apparate right in front of Vax, and go speeding past you, as she's now plummeting from the air, having summoned to your side.

MARISHA: I'm technically an earth elemental still.

MATT: You're still earth elemental? So yeah, you see Keyleth as a giant boulder that appears at the side. You have to dodge out of the way (whoosh) as this giant rock being, out of the corner of your eye, appears before you. However, she sinks straight past you. You're flying as low as you can, you're going terminal velocity, and there is this (rumble) rock entity plummeting at the same rate.

TALIESIN: A meteor.

MARISHA: You know, it was a good idea when he was still in the dragon.

MATT: Yeah, I know. It was.

LIAM: (singing) I came in like a wrecking ball!

MATT: At about 200 feet up, you continue to plummet.

MARISHA: 200 feet? That's all right.

MATT: All right. You're not doing anything else? You're going to take the fall?

MARISHA: Well, what's below me?

MATT: The very edge of the Bramblewood and the base of the mountain. You're not quite sure where you'll land. You see treetops and rocks.

TALIESIN: What's the worst that's going to happen?

MARISHA: I would hit zero hit points as an earth elemental and go back to Keyleth.

MATT: And then the rest of the damage would carry over.

MARISHA: Right, but 200 feet. That's survivable.

MATT: That's 20d6.

SAM: You'll be fine. What's that? 60 points.

MARISHA: Yeah. It's roughly 60 points, and I've got 67 left as this earth elemental.

MATT: All right, so you're going to take it?

MARISHA: Hang on, wait. Wait, wait. If I'm going to do this, I'm going to do it right. I'm going to ball up like a cannonball and light up my hands, that I keep forgetting because I didn't know I could do them in elemental form, by the way. Thought it was only beast form. I'm going to light myself on fire and go meteor.

MATT: All right. You guys watch as the earth elemental curls up, forms this streak of flame and smoke behind, and now a plummeting Keyleth meteor goes slamming into the base of the mountain just past you as you pull up from impacting at terminal velocity.

MARISHA: I was trying to leave an impression. No pun intended.

MATT: You suffer 76 points of bludgeoning damage upon impact.

SAM: Of Jor-El damage.

(laughter)

MATT: (boom) This giant crater is left around your form as now there is this somewhat smoke-swirled Keyleth sprawled out in the center of this.

MARISHA: I drop, and I stand up, Keyleth, in the middle of a giant crater.

MATT: The rest of you all eventually catch up. The eagle-back carriers, you on broomback, finding your party bruised, hurt, but ultimately survived this moment of the encounter. As you've all had this moment to yourself, Vex, you hear a noise to your left coming from the exterior of the Bramblewood.

LAURA: Can I see what it is?

MATT: You glance off to the side, and you can see, emerging, slowly from the forest, a single humanoid standing before you.

SAM: Is he single?

MATT: No. You see, slowly coming forward, a woman. An older woman, an older goliath woman, missing one eye and missing her forearm– her left arm, right at the elbow. The right arm clutches a very tall quarterstaff that is being used as a walking stick as she wanders up. You can see dirt smeared in her face, darker dreadlocks pulled tight against the back of the head that dangle past the shoulders, tattoos similar to the ones that adorn Grog across the face and shoulders. She slowly walks towards the party. Let's go ahead and bring our guest for the evening out. You can go around the other way. Let's welcome Chris Perkins!

LIAM: Welcome, Chris, welcome!

TALIESIN: Is he coming to this side?

MATT: Right to the edge, next to you, Keyleth.

SAM: Do you know how to play this game?

CHRIS: Keyleth meteor, what?

MARISHA: Yeah, that's me.

MATT: As she steps up and emerges from the forest, everyone turns and sees the worry on Vex's face.

LAURA: (laughs) Vax pours a drink.

LIAM: It was very frightening.

LAURA: Halt! Who are you?

CHRIS: My name is Shale.

LAURA: What's your business here?

CHRIS: I was following a scouting party out to the mountain. But these old bones don't take me as far as fast as they used to.

TRAVIS: Do I recognize Shale?

MATT: You do, actually. Not very well. Shale has been around longer than you have as part of the herd, but is mostly considered past her prime as a warrior. Since she lost her arm, was set to the side, and a lot of the herd seems to not value their elders when they become less powerful in battle, but even still, she carries a bit of spit and vinegar to her. But it's been a while since you've seen her, and to see her surviving out here, both curious and honorable.

TRAVIS: Shale.

SAM: Sorry. You're still an eagle.

MATT: (caw)

TRAVIS: (caw)

SAM: Grog, do you want to say something?

CHRIS: I will brandish my quarterstaff, my rune-covered quarterstaff, and try to hold this big creature at bay.

MATT: Shale's holding her staff out.

CHRIS: Stand down, bird!

LIAM: I love you! Let me love you!

SAM: All right, all right. I'll drop the form. I'll drop the form.

TRAVIS: Thank you, god. Shale.

CHRIS: Grog? Is that you?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's me. I know, you can't tell.

CHRIS: You're kind of a blur. What's on your face?

TRAVIS: It's a beard.

CHRIS: You've gotten big.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Lots of lifting. Lots of running, getting strong.

CHRIS: Last time I saw you, you were the runt of the goatball team.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: You were a runt, Grog?

TRAVIS: No, when I was born, she means. When I was born.

LAURA: Was he rather small?

CHRIS: He was puny.

TRAVIS: Puny compared to mountains and stuff.

ASHLEY: What's goatball?

CHRIS: It's a game you play. You stand on pillars of rock, and you hurl balls at each other.

LAURA: Made of goats?

CHRIS: Made of goatskins. Skins, my dear.

MARISHA: Sounds kind of fun.

CHRIS: The object of the game is to knock the other opponents off their pillars.

LIAM: That's more civilized than what we were imagining.

TRAVIS: It's a lot of fun, actually.

LAURA: Shale, what were you doing out here with a scouting party? It seems–

CHRIS: We were spying on the dragon. Damnable beast.

LAURA: Did you succeed?

CHRIS: No. The scouting team did not fare well.

MARISHA: Are any of them still alive?

CHRIS: No. They're all dead.

SAM: How did you survive?

CHRIS: I was slow and stupid. I shouldn't have gone at all. I couldn't keep up with them. By the time I got to them, they were corpses.

SAM: You sound like an excellent addition to our team, then.

CHRIS: She says, I would have killed the dragon as soon as it came upon us, when we first arrived in Westruun, but that damn Kevdak formed an alliance with the beast.

LAURA: Wait, you think you can kill a dragon?

ASHLEY: Wait, what did you just say? Oh.

SAM: We knew that.

ASHLEY: Yes. Realized it as I was saying it.

CHRIS: That is how I wanted to die. Fighting the dragon.

MARISHA: It's funny, we almost just died fighting the dragon. How ironic.

TRAVIS: We put a good hurting on it, yeah. Do you– I mean, not like I'm questioning what can you do, because I don't think it's very much.

MARISHA: I'm actually great. I'm just in a smoldering meteor and look like a badass.

MATT: Which caught your attention, the large, crashing boom.

CHRIS: That was it.

LIAM: I yank on Vex's hand from down below and say, pick me up! Put me on your shoulder!

LAURA: What's the matter? Can you not see anything down there? I pop Trinket out and put Vax on top of him. Don't you feel so tall now?

LIAM: I am tall.

MARISHA: How much longer is he going to be tiny?

MATT: How long does the potion last?

LIAM: I rolled a three, so that's three hours.

MATT: Yeah, three hours.

TRAVIS: Sweet.

LIAM: We have to decide what to do. He's gone back to his hole. He's going to rest. He's going to heal.

MARISHA: I just have such a hard time taking you seriously right now. I'm so sorry.

TRAVIS: So you had to have been a part of this party for a reason. What's in your bag of tricks? What can you do?

CHRIS: I smash things with my stick.

TRAVIS: With your stick. Does magic come out of your stick?

CHRIS: It is a magical staff.

TRAVIS: Oh, well, that's good.

SAM: Yeah, we could use more of those.

TRAVIS: Is it a magical staff of dragon killing?

CHRIS: It will be if we get on with it.

TRAVIS: I like that.

LIAM: I like her, too.

MARISHA: So, Shale, did you and your scouting party find out any additional information that might be handy?

LAURA: Maybe how to get into the lair without it knowing?

MARISHA: What she said.

CHRIS: I know nothing of use.

LAURA: That's wonderful.

LIAM: You never made it up to the cave entrance, did you?

CHRIS: I made it up to the dead ones. That's as far as I got.

LAURA: How far were the dead ones?

CHRIS: A ways.

MARISHA: All right.

SAM: I hate to tell you this, but Kevdak is gone.

CHRIS: No great loss.

SAM: Your whole herd may have perished fighting this same dragon.

LIAM: Not all of them.

MARISHA: A lot of them.

TRAVIS: But it will all be worth it if we can remove the head of this shitty black dragon.

CHRIS: I agree.

LAURA: Plus, Zanror is still alive, as is his wife. I think.

SAM: Maybe.

MARISHA: We hope.

TALIESIN: Possibly.

TRAVIS: So, how far would you think that we are from his lair?

CHRIS: I'll just crane my neck up the mountain.

MATT: It's a sizable climb. Gatshadow– While this portion is the south part of the Cliffkeep Mountains, which get higher the further north you go, this mountain is called Gatshadow because it is dark and ominous and stands out amongst the rest of the mountains. While the other ones crest at about maybe 4,000 feet up, this one's nearly a mile, a little over a mile high.

LAURA: Well, we can obviously fly.

MATT: There are sparse trees, most of them dead or dried out towards the top, but other than that the vegetation is pretty sparse.

TRAVIS: Look, I'm a little jacked up. I think those two are a little jacked up.

MARISHA: I could use a short rest.

TRAVIS: It's fair to assume that he will do the same thing, yeah?

SAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Go brush his teeth, have a deuce, all that stuff.

MARISHA: We're trying to catch the dragon while he's still debilitated, right?

LIAM: The longer we wait, the harder it will be.

ASHLEY: What if I just heal everybody and we keep on?

SAM: Yeah, that's great.

ASHLEY: I don't want to lose the damage that's on him.

SAM: Yeah, heal us and let's keep going. Quickly. How long has it been, a minute? Two minutes?

MATT: Since you guys landed here? It's probably been about two, three minutes.

SAM: We've got to move.

TRAVIS: Can we travel a mile up a mountain quickly?

SAM: We have eagles.

MATT: Even at your fastest pace, eagle speed…

LIAM: The broom and the two eagles at this point?

MATT: The broom is slower than the eagles. Eagle speed you're looking at about– I'm estimating somewhere between ten to 20 minutes.

LIAM: That's enough for a short rest for it. He's not going to go back to full strength, but he's going to go back up a bit.

LAURA: Would we know that?

MARISHA: We don't know what he has access to.

MATT: You would know, being as dragons are your favored enemy, and you have information on that. Generally, they don't– They themselves can recover over time, and if given a full day or so, they can largely recover from the wounds they have sustained almost entirely, especially a dragon as powerful as an ancient. You would know that, because they understand and fear their demise, or at least are arrogant enough to think it's not possible, they will have certain reserves to try and help them recover if they ever find themselves in a dire circumstance. Occasionally, depending on the intelligence of the dragon and what resources it has at its disposal.

MARISHA: Reserves. What do you mean?

LAURA: Healing stuff?

MATT: Some semblance of healing magic, items they may have acquired that can help. The longer you wait, the more it can recover, is essentially what it comes down to.

LIAM: We need to go now. We need to go.

SAM: Should we mist form it there? Can we do that?

LAURA: That takes too long to think about.

MARISHA: I can get us there via trees.

SAM: But you'd need to know a tree that's there.

MARISHA: I need to know a tree that's there. I could Scry, look for the closest tree, teleport us there, but by the time I'm getting there, I'm exhausted.

LIAM: Are you able to see a tree from a great distance?

MARISHA: If I Scry.

LIAM: Not even by eyesight?

MARISHA: I mean, I guess I can look around and take a guess.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Mass Cure Wounds on everybody.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and do that. And Shale, you feel nice and warm at full health as the Mass Cure Wounds tickles you.

LAURA: Is your arm back?

MATT: Unfortunately, no. If only!

SAM: The temporary hit points never go back up, right?

MATT: Correct, no. They were just for that little bit of damage.

CHRIS: Lost it in an avalanche, I did.

SAM: Today?

CHRIS: No, turd.

MATT: The Scrying will take you about ten minutes or so.

LAURA: Are we going to Scry it or are we just going to go? How long would it take if we just flew up? 20 minutes?

MATT: That's if you were all on eagle-back. Which you don't. You have eight people, and you currently have two summoned eagles.

LIAM: Speed of the slowest.

MATT: Yeah, the speed of the slowest here, you're looking at walking up the mountain.

MARISHA: Yeah. So I can teleport us closer and then walk, or we can take a very short rest so I can get my beast shaping back, and then could fly a few more of us. It's a gamble.

CHRIS: You take your rest, love. I'll start up the mountain.

MATT: Shale walks away and starts hiking up the rocks at the very base of Gatshadow.

TRAVIS: Can I just say that we agree that the reason we didn't do what Zanror wanted and go to the lair is because it's a fucking death trap?

SAM: Yes, but the dragon is injured now.

TRAVIS: But he's going to heal up by the time we get there.

SAM: Not all the way.

TRAVIS: Pretty good.

LIAM: It's still the best chance we have. We have to kill it now.

TRAVIS: In its lair?

CHRIS: It's your destiny to fight the dragon, Grog.

MARISHA: Wait, what? What was that, Shale? Is that true?

CHRIS: No, it's not true.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Everybody is healed 27.

CHRIS: It's just a thing old women say.

MARISHA: Just let him believe it.

LIAM: Kiki, may I have my– Sorry. (higher voice) May I have my cloak back?

MARISHA: Oh, yeah, sure.

LIAM: Thank you. (flump, whoosh)

MATT: To attune to it will take you a short rest.

MARISHA: So are we resting?

MATT: That's up to you guys.

LIAM: I don't know. But I'm still putting it on.

TRAVIS: When I turned into the eagle, what happened to the Bloodaxe and chain?

MATT: Actually, you check, and the equipment that you have attuned to you and attached go into the form with you, so at this moment you realize, “Oh, the axe!” You look behind you, and it's just been dragging behind you in the dirt, carving this path in the rocks and rubble.

TRAVIS: Yeah. That's nifty.

MATT: Like a kid with a deflated balloon you're just dragging behind you.

LAURA: Can I– well, I can't sense anything about it with Hunter's Mark, I just know where he is.

MATT: You know where it is.

LAURA: And he's up in his lair.

MATT: He is up at the top of Gatshadow, somewhere in that mountain.

LAURA: Moving around, or is he chilling?

MATT: At the moment, seems chilling.

SAM: Let's go.

MATT: Short rest or not, what are you guys doing?

MARISHA: How long would the hike up the mountain be? An hour?

MATT: It's about a mile up. You're looking at the better part of a day.

SAM: Oh, a mile up.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Unless we fly.

TALIESIN: What if we take shifts with the eagles?

MATT: Take shifts with the eagles? Back and forth?

TALIESIN: Eagles fly a group up, fly down, pick up another group and bring them?

MATT: Probably about an hour.

TALIESIN: But that's an hour with a short rest for everybody as well.

MATT: If you're going to do it that way, yeah.

LIAM: Half could rest at the top while the eagles fly back, and the ones at the bottom could rest.

TALIESIN: So there's a short rest.

LIAM: Shifts of resting, yeah.

MATT: You're still looking at about an hour and a half at that point, with people moving there and back and getting enough rest. You can't short rest on the trip, and the short rest is about an hour, half an hour.

LIAM: Eagles drop off, they rest while the eagles return, and the people at the bottom rest while the eagles are making the trip, no?

MATT: Right, but you still have to have the eagles that went to the bottom to pick up the second team to get there, so you're still looking at about an hour and a half to two hours.

LAURA: I could also use another spell and summon a couple more eagles.

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: I could summon two more eagles.

LIAM: That's worth it.

LAURA: And that could get how many of us up?

LIAM: All of us up at the same time.

SAM: But one is just for Grog, right?

LAURA: But two more eagles would get all of us up?

MATT: It's a concentration spell. You can only have one of it up at a time.

LAURA: It is?

MATT: Yeah. And it only lasts for an hour, and you've already been at this for probably about ten, 15 minutes.

LAURA: So they're about to go away.

MATT: You have about another 40 minutes of the eagles.

MARISHA: So we couldn't do round trips anyway. They'd dissipate.

MATT: You'd just have to recast it.

MARISHA: Well, yeah.

SAM: That seems like our fastest option. What's the other option? A short rest and then we bamf.

MARISHA: We rest and then go. If we rest for 30 minutes, and then I switch and then we have the eagles, then we can get up in another 30 minutes, and then it's an hour. Theoretically, short resting is our shortest.

MATT: You said you have Transport Via Plants, right?

MARISHA: I do.

MATT: If you wanted to Scry up that mountain and look at one of the trees at the top, you could do that. That would be, technically, the fastest way.

MARISHA: But then we'd still have to hike. How long would the hike be?

MATT: It depends on how close the nearest tree to the cavern would be.

SAM: Let's do that.

MARISHA: I'm tapping myself– I can do it, but I'm tapping myself out. I'm burning literally all my top level spells and I have no beast shapes left. But I can do it. It's what we think is most important.

LAURA: What if we use the eagles, send them up. Once they're used up, they're gone at the top, and then I'll just summon two more and send everybody else up? Once the people make it up the top, that way it takes less time. A couple people hop on the eagles right now, because we only have a little bit of time left.

MARISHA: Can I rest? Can I rest while the first round goes?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: We're fighting a dragon in its lair! In the worst place we could possibly fight it!

SAM: We've also dealt so much damage to it.

MATT: Umbrasyl was looking pretty rough.

SAM: I fisted through it!

TALIESIN: He said looking pretty rough.

TRAVIS: That's because he's a liar and a bringer of death, and he is smiling at you while he does it.

TALIESIN: I know.

SAM: What are we going to do today with Chris Perkins? Talk, or go fucking kill a dragon?

TALIESIN: Would you like a tour of Whitestone? It's really lovely this time of year.

CHRIS: I'm judging you!

LIAM: Grog, she's right. It is your destiny.

TRAVIS: In your tiny voice.

LIAM: What are you laughing at?

LAURA: Everybody hop on an eagle.

ASHLEY: I hop on an eagle.

TALIESIN: Hopping on an eagle.

SAM: Well, no, half of the people hop on an eagle.

LAURA: Two of the halflings– two of the gnomes can get on.

ASHLEY: Scanlan.

SAM: I'm in back?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LIAM: I'm sort of a halfling. Can I get on too?

MATT: At your size? The three of you would probably be able to take one eagle, because you are tiny.

SAM: Oh, that's right, he's a little one.

LAURA: All right. You guys go.

LIAM: See you in a bit, sis! Bye, Keek!

MATT: So we'll say, for the purposes of this, it'll take an additional cast of your spell, so mark off a second casting of Conjure Woodland Beings. However, that brings– What level is that?

LAURA: That is level– Oh, good. Level three.

MATT: Conjure Woodland Beings?

LAURA: So I've got two level threes left. With my Pearl of power.

MATT: Conjure Woodland Beings is a 4th-level spell, Laura.

LAURA: I have Conjure Animals, not Woodland Beings.

MATT: Animals, there we go. Sorry, so yeah, that is 3rd-level. So yeah, mark off your second casting there. You guys manage to make a short rest between the journeys, making your way up towards the dark, blackened rock peak of Gatshadow. We're going to take a short break here for restroom. We'll be back here in a few minutes. In the meantime we have an awesome video from Backblaze to show you guys–

ASHLEY: Yay!

TALIESIN: It's really cute.

MARISHA: It's for you guys!

MATT: We'll be back here in a few minutes guys, stay tuned for apparently the attack on Umbrasyl's lair. See you in a minute.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. We've had a little break here. A quick announcement for you guys, the rebroadcast tonight will be delayed for about 30 minutes as we have to shoot something directly after this so we can all go home. So, if you guys are in chat after and folks are showing up going, “Where's the rebroadcast?” Just let them know it'll be around, about a 20-30 minute break between. We appreciate you guys carrying that thread over to them when they arrive. So we've had a break. If you wanted to use any of your hit dice to heal up during the short rest, now's the time to do it. You've re-attuned to the Dragon Slayer Longsword. And just so you guys know, both Grog and Vax leveled up to 14 as well. Vax took a level of paladin during the short rest. Grog also took his 14th level as a barbarian. As a berserker, a lot of you know what that means.

SAM: I don't know what that means.

LIAM: We'll find out. I'd like to re-attune to the Cloak of Displacement. And the Boots of Haste, are they spent for the day for anybody? If I were to wear them, could I get the juice or no? They're done?

LAURA: They're too big for you, teeny.

LIAM: They would shrink to me. I'm going to re-attune my Keen Dagger, then, for the moment. So it's Deathwalkers Ward, Keen Dagger, Cloak. Three items.

MATT: Okay. I'll let it happen. Usually, you attune one item in a short rest.

LIAM: Oh, okay. No, I can do one.

MATT: I think it's fine for this. You get attuned as you walk up the rest of the way. It's fine.

TRAVIS: I've rolled all nine of my hit dice.

MATT: So you're out of hit dice?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: All right. Everyone else good? Ready to jump back in?

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: (laughs)

SAM: Does anyone need more healing? Are we okay?

MARISHA: Yeah, we're good.

LAURA: And because I Conjured Woodland Animals, I lost my Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Yes, you did, but you know loosely where it was.

SAM: All right, let's hurry.

MATT: As you guys slowly make your way up towards the peak of Gatshadow, you all come to rest maybe, from what best you can tell, is the entrance cavern that Umbrasyl currently calls its home. Across this blackened, dark craggy surface, you see clumps of dead, petrified trees. Leafless, gnarled, and devoid of any life. There are signs of melted stone, soot. Long ago, there may have been a fire that claimed the top of this mountain and set its visual presentation that got its name. However, this is your moment, should you wish to make your way towards your conflict with Umbrasyl. How do you wish to prepare?

LAURA: I want to sleep for a day.

MARISHA: Yeah. I want to rock back and forth in a corner.

LIAM: I'd like to go stealth and I'd like to see– is there one clear, main entrance to this place?

MATT: There is a cavern opening.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: There are a few small little inlets into the mountain at certain points, but the path that you guys land on that ends? You're going to have to climb around the mountain to get to the entrance of this. There is no walk-up path. Actually, just an opening on the side of the mountain.

LIAM: So we're further down still. We're not near the entrance?

MATT: You're about 400 to 500 feet away from the entrance.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MATT: You stealth ahead and look a little bit and you notice the path comes to an end. You probably have about a hundred feet that you have to scale the side of mountain to get to the entrance.

LIAM: From where I am, I can tell that we need to climb around it. If I look very hard, do I see any little holes or cracks or anything above?

MATT: You see one other small entrance about maybe 60 feet below it, a little bit to the left.

LIAM: All right.

SAM: Pretty cool sound effects

CHRIS: It's freaking me out.

LAURA: Is that your music?

MATT: That is not my music. That's the atmosphere.

TALIESIN: Shale, Shale. The scouting party. Where did you find the bodies? Where were they left?

MATT: Which actually you– this was probably a couple hundred feet back. They made it near the peak. However, they were spotted upon the approach, and you heard the battle. The very short battle that ensued. Heard the screams of them, far from your eyesight.

CHRIS: I will have pointed them out, then.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: So that's why I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

LIAM: How far above our position is that smaller entrance–

(noise of hissing gas)

MATT: It's all atmosphere, guys. I paid them to do it. I know. All right. Towards where the actual walkable portion of this mountain cliff ends, you have about 40 feet of scaleable wall, at an upward angle, before you can reach that small little inlet that you saw there. An additional 60 feet beyond that is the larger entrance where you saw, the best you can tell, Umbrasyl retreat towards– or exit before, when you were watching him emerge from the mountain. That's it.

LIAM: What do you think? Do you think I should climb in that little hole?

LAURA: Do you want– say that again?

LIAM: There's a main entrance above. But there's also a smaller, little gap lower down. He cannot fit in there.

MARISHA: I can try and scry inside the cavern.

LAURA: See if it's something that would be worth–

MARISHA: Get a battle perspective?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: All right. You have to give me a few minutes. Is everyone all right with that?

LAURA: Can I use my ranger skills to try to camouflage us into the side of the mountain? To make us even more non-seeable?

MATT: Yeah. Totally. So we'll say for the purposes of that, anyone at this point who'd like to make a stealth check, to go ahead and keep yourselves hidden from any onlooking parties.

MARISHA: Natural 20.

LAURA: Add ten.

LIAM: Natural 20!

MARISHA: Hey!

MATT: Add ten for Pass Without a Trace.

SAM: 17.

TALIESIN: 24.

CHRIS: 22.

TRAVIS: 16.

ASHLEY: 29.

ALL: Whoa!

ASHLEY: What?!

(laughter)

LIAM: Why, I do declare.

ASHLEY: Well, I do declare I'm invisible.

MATT: The armored cleric cannot be seen.

(laughter)

LAURA: 32.

MATT: With Vex's help, you guys manage to take bits of the mud, soot, and the burnt remnants of the once lush forest that dotted this mountainside, and darken your exteriors to help obscure the vision of anything that wished to pry, along with the magic drawing the shadows to your forms. You're pretty confident that most of you would be fairly difficult to be spotted by most creatures.

LIAM: I would just like to point out that my complete total is 45.

ASHLEY: Of stealthing?

LAURA: Thank you. Thank you for pointing that out.

LIAM: Yes. It's mostly for your benefit.

LAURA: I appreciate it.

MATT: That's ridiculous.

ASHLEY and LAURA: How?

LIAM: Natural 20, plus my 15 benefit, plus Pass Without a Trace. Poof! (vanishing sound)

MATT: You've stealthed through time. People who had seen you previously in your past, have no recollection of ever actually seeing you.

(laughter)

LIAM: Marty McFly's holding a photograph.

MATT: Exactly. All right. So, what's up now?

MARISHA: I take a little of the soot, and I give myself some druid battle make-up.

MATT: There you go, just smear it.

LAURA: Yeah. Did you scry yet?

MARISHA: I'm about to.

LAURA: Okay. I do the same thing. I soot my face up, too. Let's all make battle paint while she's scrying.

TALIESIN: Absolutely not.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Pretentious asshole.

ASHLEY: I want to do a hand.

(laughter)

LAURA: I get soot on my finger and walk up to Percy and just put a line from his forehead down his face.

TALIESIN: I feel violated, but thank you.

CHRIS: I'll ask Grog if he wants any soot on his face. I'll walk over.

TRAVIS: I'll put soot on your face if you come near me with that wicked, wicked staff of yours.

CHRIS: This is not wicked. It's just a staff. It doesn't even have a name.

TRAVIS: What?! How could you have a staff and not give it a name?

CHRIS: Only men name their things.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah. My staff doesn't have a name. It's so true.

CHRIS: You know, if you kill this dragon, you'll be the greatest goliath that's ever lived.

TRAVIS: No.

CHRIS: Yes!

TRAVIS: Really?

CHRIS: No one else has killed a dragon of this size. Not among us. Not among the Herd.

ASHLEY: Grog.

TRAVIS: Pike killed a dragon.

CHRIS: Did you, now?

ASHLEY: Well, we all did. But it wasn't this big.

LAURA: It was pretty small.

ASHLEY: It was pretty– it was a lot bigger than me.

CHRIS: I'm sure that experience will come in handy.

SAM: All right, let's do this.

MARISHA: All right. I scry. I focus really hard on the dragon.

MATT: Okay. On Umbrasyl?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Do you need any of his stomach bile to help you scry?

MARISHA: Sure! Can I have some of the– I scrape a little stomach bile–

SAM: Does that help? Does that help?

MATT: Well, here. Let me pull up the actual specifics for Scrying here.

CHRIS: This is going to go well, I can feel it.

MARISHA: Wait. He's going to sense what I can scry, can't he? Maybe I can just try and scry inside the lair?

MATT: It largely depends.

SAM: What do you want to do?

MARISHA: I mean, he knows we're coming, yeah?

LAURA: Can you scry that little cavern to see where it leads to? Can you scry your mind up the cavern?

MARISHA: Yeah. Actually, can I do that? Like it's a camera drone?

MATT: It's more like picking a location, as opposed to an actual–

MARISHA: Sure. I want to try and focus on Umbrasyl's whereabouts, but I want to see if I can get a nice bird's-eye view of inside the cavern.

MATT: Okay. You are familiar with the target as you've done battles, that does adjust the saving throw for the scry. So, without further ado, what's the DC of your spells currently?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: 19. Hmm. As your eyes close, your vision projects itself beyond your form, beyond the craggy landscape of Gatshadow, out beyond the mountain pass that ends abruptly. Beyond the cavern entrance, you are pulled within the darkness. Suddenly, you find a little bit of light scatters across the damp stonework of the inside of this cavern. You see stalagmites. You see pools of murky, greenish-brackish liquid, ever so gently disturbed by the wind that curls in and out of this cavern. You see towards the back an elevated platform next to another pool, where a large outcropping of stone that has just slowly pulled itself out of the rock, nearly touching the very height of this cavern. You don't see anything in there. All you hear is (low breathing sound).

SAM: He's asleep.

CHRIS: (loudly) What do you see?

MARISHA: Ah!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Well, nothing now. That's it? That's all I see?

MATT: That's all you see.

LAURA: Did you see Umbrasyl?

MARISHA: No, but I heard him. He sounds very rough, or possibly sleeping? I don't know, there was a lot of heavy breathing. Very deep– not, you know, shallow breathing. Not impassioned breathing, Scanlan.

LAURA: Could he still be invisible?

MARISHA: He could I guess still be invisible. Also the cave was covered in acid pools and dark and dingy and everything else we would expect.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: I know.

TRAVIS: Let's do it.

SAM: Okay. We're going in the small hole or the big hole?

MARISHA: I don't think he caught my presence. I don't think he's necessarily expecting us. We can have the element of surprise, here.

LIAM: Let me check out that hole on top. You guys can watch me do it.

LAURA: Go in the little hole, then.

LIAM: I'm little now. It's a big hole. It's quite big, actually.

LAURA: It's roomy.

LIAM: I'd like to climb up to it.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead–

LIAM: Spider-sense tingling the whole time.

MATT: All right. So you manage to find bits of rock and pull yourself across the way. It's not too long a distance but enough to the point where I need you to go ahead and make a basic strength check.

LIAM: 14.

MATT: 14. Okay. It's hard and you feel part of your muscles build up lactic acid from the exertion, from the previous round with Umbrasyl and you not being necessarily the strongest individual of the troupe, but you do manage to scurry your way up to the edge of this small opening in the mountainside. Getting inside, you get a look: this hole continues for about 15 feet into the mountain before it ends abruptly. The only other thing you notice is there are currently four long-dead skeleton corpses within this hole. Perhaps some sort of mountain-climbing expedition or travelers that found their way there, and couldn't escape. There are remnants of a small camp. Perhaps a small fire that is long iced-over through winters past. A layer of dust sits on everything and other than the occasional gust of wind that finds its way in here, largely undisturbed for a long period of time.

LIAM: I want to look through the remains.

MATT: Okay. You rummage through the remains. You find roughly 85 gold pieces amongst their corpses and spare change in silver and copper–

LIAM: I don't take that.

MATT: Copper. The pennies of D&D. Poor things. Copper dragons everywhere are just so disappointed. You do find an oil lantern, climbing gear for four people, some long-spoiled rations. And you find a very moldy diary.

LIAM: I take out the Flametongue Dagger and give myself some light.

MATT: As you're scanning through most of the pages that are still intact and not completely molded over or destroyed, it appears to be a journal that contains writings of what was an expedition to reach the peak of Gatshadow, because there was some sort of movement, some sort of activity up there that nobody could really discern. The rumors speak of some sort of creature that would stalk out in the night and steal mountain goats. (belches) Pardon me. Goats! Steal mountain goats, steal or find and kill anybody who lived in– there used to be a smaller village that lived north on the mountainscape that is now abandoned because of this creature the folklore of the time said supposedly lived at the top of the mountain. It speaks of the entrance, the place that Umbrasyl now calls the lair, and this leads you to believe that this is a fresh lair. Umbrasyl did not appear to always live within Gatshadow, but is only currently making it its lair at the moment.

LIAM: Is this a dead end? Does it look like it goes further in?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: By the light of my dagger.

MATT: Actually, this would be investigation.

LIAM: Investigation? All right. 20. No, wait– Yeah, 20.

MATT: 20. Feeling along the walls, you find elements of the rocks that are easier to break off than others, but this is predominantly the end of this cavern.

LIAM: It's a cave. Okay. I tell my sister: it's a dead end. It's nothing. Coming.

MATT: So Vax finds his way back to the group.

SAM: It's a dead end? Jesus. This ain't going to be good. Shale, would you like to lead the way?

CHRIS: Yes. Now, I may not survive this. I'm quite old, and I can only see about 30 feet ahead of me–

LAURA: Well then, maybe she doesn't lead the way.

(laughter)

LIAM: My sister and I should lead the way. You stick to Grog, will you, grandma?

CHRIS: I whack him.

(laughter)

MATT: (whack sound)

LIAM: Wait! I don't get to dodge?

MATT: No. Because, unexpected, she is swift, and she is strong for being one-armed and of her age. The sting hits the side of your shoulder before you have a moment to really understand and your diminutive form is thrown about three or four feet back before you catch yourself.

TRAVIS: (laughter)

LIAM: I skitter off ahead of the group.

MARISHA: I cast Protection from Acid on Grog, again.

CHRIS: Now, if I don't survive, loves, I do have some magic on me. So this staff has runes. You can scratch them off and magical things will appear! And this horn, if you blow it real loud, it will let out a tremendous thunder that could bring down the entire cave.

SAM: I don't think you should be planning for your own death!

LAURA: I'll take the horn.

CHRIS: It might explode.

SAM: It might explode?!

CHRIS: It's a little unstable.

LAURA: Scanlan, you should take the horn.

SAM: She's not dead yet!

LAURA: I'm saying when she dies. If she dies.

SAM: We're not going to divvy up her stuff! That's bad luck!

LIAM: She's bequeathing it to you in her will.

CHRIS: And this pendant here, which looks like a dragon tooth, it's a dragon tooth. And if you wear it, it will close your wounds.

LAURA: Could I insight check her? I feel like she's lying through her teeth.

(laughter)

MATT: Make an insight check.

SAM: Maybe we should just kill her now and take the stuff.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: Really? So, Chris?

CHRIS: I'm being super sincere.

LAURA: Oh. I really want all those things–

CHRIS: She honestly believes.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Shale, you seem almost like you're–

CHRIS: My hide armor ain't worth shit.

MARISHA: As I was saying, you seem like you're almost expecting to die, or you're looking forward to it?

CHRIS: Well, I'm very old. And if I could die fighting a dragon, well, there's no better way to go. If I don't die, great! Wonderful!

MARISHA: All right. Just checking that we wouldn't disappoint you if you don't die.

TRAVIS: Wait, just to be clear: if we kill the dragon, are you going to say you killed the dragon or would you say I killed the dragon? Who's going to be the greatest goliath?

CHRIS: Why, you, of course.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

CHRIS: I'm past my prime.

TRAVIS: We'll shake on it?

CHRIS: I will shake on it.

MATT: Which is easy because you put out the proper hand for the one arm she has.

CHRIS: You want to mess with her, put out your other hand.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Shale, what type of magic do you wield, exactly?

CHRIS: I wield this staff.

MARISHA: Okay. Very clear.

TALIESIN: This is going to be great! I'm on board and committed to this. This is very exciting!

SAM: Thank you, Shale. Let's try to live.

MARISHA: So remember, acid pools everywhere. Do we have any type of cohesive plan, or just–

SAM: We're just going to go in.

TALIESIN: Just be very quiet.

LIAM: I'm already looking for traps, looking for danger.

MATT: So you're coming up to the entrance.

LIAM: I'm not going to go in the entrance, but I'm going to try to climb up and peer over the edge and look as carefully as I can.

MATT: Go ahead and make another strength check.

LIAM: 17.

MATT: You manage to climb your way up to the larger mouth of the cavern. It's about 40 feet across at the very front of it. And about 50 feet up. It's this large–

LIAM: 40 feet, 50 feet?

MATT: Yeah. And the rest of you guys? Are you pursuing?

SAM: I'm going to come.

MATT: Rest of you climbing along the mountain as well?

SAM: Wait, is that the way in?

TRAVIS: Is there anything you can do to make the dragon visible with his invisibility? Set fire, or your faeries?

MARISHA: I do have Faerie Fire. You combine the two things that you said and it's fantastic.

TRAVIS: Totally meant to. Okay. I'm just climbing. I'll follow them.

MATT: All right. Everyone who's climbing, I need you to roll a strength check.

MARISHA: Wait! Who's climbing where?

MATT: There's no actual walkway to it.

LAURA: Does anybody want to ride the broom with me?

TALIESIN: I'll ride the broom. I'm not a climber.

SAM: My Gloves of Swimming and Climbing, are those attuned items?

MATT: I don't think they are, no.

SAM: I'll put on my Gloves of Swimming and Climbing, which I got two years ago.

TRAVIS: 26.

MARISHA: 19.

SAM: I don't know what they do.

MATT: Advantage on the roll.

SAM: Oh, great! 16.

MATT: 16? Okay.

CHRIS: 18.

MATT: 18. All right.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: Okay. And you're floating up?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All of you begin to shimmy across the surface. The wind is piercingly cold. The clouds up here are dark and there isn't enough moisture to rain, but there are flashes of some sort of wild lightning storm that go off in the distance in the roiling clouds. As you're making your way across, Pike, your foot skips across one of the stones, it breaks and falls beneath you and you almost lose yourself. Grog grabs you, and holds you in place, and pulls you back up.

ASHLEY: Sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: Nobody saw anything.

ASHLEY: I thought I would be stronger, but I'm still not.

TRAVIS: You're a champ.

LAURA: Wait! Aren't you wearing the strength gauntlets?

ASHLEY: Yes, I am. That brought me to 12.

(laughter)

MATT: You all slowly make your way to the very mouth of the cavern. You've been at this point, as well. You wanted to go ahead and make an investigation?

LIAM: Scootching in, yeah.

MATT: All right, go for it.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24. Feeling around the exterior, there are two rocks that are nearly identical, placed at each side of the cavern entrance. Upon approaching, their texture and their weathered appearance is far younger than the rest of the stone around them, and that catches your attention.

LIAM: Do I need a further investigation check to discern their nature?

MATT: The nature is some semblance of a magical enchantment. This is a little beyond your understanding unless you want to try and roughshod it in the way you know how.

TRAVIS: Call me up to the front. We got this.

LIAM: Scanlan, do you want to grab that big…

SAM: Big what?

LIAM: Shale.

SAM: Oh, Shale.

LIAM: And yourself.

SAM: You got a trap up there, friend?

LIAM: Something. There's rocks up here that look a little funky and I don't think they actually are rocks.

SAM: Rocks? Hey Keyleth, you should go. There are rocks. You could do something with rocks–

MARISHA: I love rocks!

SAM: Yeah, I know. Go up there with Shale. Shale's a rock. Go.

MARISHA: Okay. What's happening? Where am I?

LIAM: Just come up a little bit slowly. There are a couple of rocks up here that look a little funny to me. Don't step on me.

MARISHA: Oh right! You're so tiny right now. I keep forgetting that.

CHRIS: You're very brave for someone so small!

MARISHA: Do you want me to put you in a little pouch? Could be like a kangaroo?

SAM: We're going to die!

LIAM: Another time.

MATT: As Keyleth and Shale approach the threshold that you're currently standing at, the rest of you are a little ways behind. He points out these two stones. Go ahead and both of you guys make an arcana check. Shale, just from what you've seen in the world.

CHRIS: Right. 13.

MARISHA: I think like, seven. Pretty sure my arcana– It's seven.

MATT: Oh, druids. You ascertain, Shale, just from stumbling upon such constructions, this is– There's some sort of magical essence to these rocks. It's old magic, which is the only reason you really recognize it. It's not the hoity-toity-learned-in-a-tower magic all the stupid people in the world tend to learn. This is old magic. That's all you were able to pick from it.

LIAM: You know what it is?

CHRIS: Old magic.

(laughter)

LIAM: Hey, dirty bard, could you come up here?

SAM: Oi! I'm here now. Sorry. I thought that the rock people could handle it.

LIAM: All hands on deck.

MARISHA: Scanlan, it's a very pretty rock–

SAM: 11 on arcana.

MATT: It's old magic.

SAM: This is old magic.

(laughter)

SAM: Not the kind you learn in those hoity-toity towers.

ASHLEY: What's going on down there?

(laughter)

SAM: Can't you just melt the rocks, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Pike, these are very attractive rocks. What does it look like?

SAM: It looks like a rock. Melt it!

MARISHA: No. What does it look like? Is it like a slate?

MATT: There are two stones about three to four foot in diameter that are almost matching, that are younger, less weathered than the rest of the stonework around them.

CHRIS: Is there any way to circumvent them? Or are they in opposite sides?

MATT: They're on opposite sides. You could circumvent them, they're not in your path.

MARISHA: I can alter their shape. I can melt, I can do something with them.

LIAM: No. Just, they're not real. A few steps back. Trickfoot's–

MARISHA: What do you mean, they're not real?

ASHLEY: I walk up.

LAURA: Can you dispel that shit?

ASHLEY: Yes. Is it magic–?

SAM and CHRIS: It's old magic.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Not the kind of magic you learn in ivory towers.

CHRIS: Older-than-me magic.

ASHLEY: That's just old.

(laughter)

SAM: It sort of has that old smell to it.

LIAM: Hey, fuck it. I'm going to take a good, hard look at this rock.

MARISHA: Hang on. We might be able to circumvent it. Right? Can we go around it?

ASHLEY: I have Dispel Magic, but I wonder if we should use it.

SAM: Dispel that magic!

ASHLEY: But that's one of my last spells!

LAURA: Well then, let's avoid them. Let's just go around them.

MARISHA: Is there room on either side of them?

MATT: They are embedded in the sides of the wall. So you could pass through them, over them, however else you want to try and circumvent them.

MARISHA: How about this? I'm going to cast Stoneshape, and can I carve out a little path around one of them, on the edge? Carve a little recess?

MATT: You can, yeah.

SAM: See? Rocks! I told you!

MARISHA: Rocks!

TALIESIN: Old rocks. Not the kind of rocks one finds in ivory towers.

MATT: Yes. Your 4th-level Stoneshape. You cause a portion of the rock wall at the side of the cavern to actually forge itself into a tunnel, circumventing the exterior rock on the left.

LAURA: Could you just do that the entire way into the cavern?

MARISHA: I can do it two more times. All the way into the cavern.

SAM: Okay. Let's go through the new hole.

LIAM: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to keep doing the same. Come on, you big giant dummy.

LAURA: I'm on a broom, do you want to ride it with me? Just kidding– Percy's already on.

LIAM: I'll stealth ahead and look around.

MATT: Okay. So roll your stealth check.

LIAM: A new stealth check?

MATT: Yeah, because you've come out of stealth and back into it.

LIAM: Okay. Well, I still have Pass Without a Trace, right? So I'm at 40.

MATT: So you make your way into the next portion. You're actually able to start seeing–

TALIESIN: Whoa! Slowly!

LIAM: You people don't see shit.

LAURA: Oh, that's acid!

MATT: –in a raised platform, in a pool of somewhat pungent-smelling liquid as you get even remotely close to it, the fume causes your sinuses to open and burn and tingle.

LIAM: They barely get in.

LAURA: Yeah. (cutesy voice) It's too small…

LIAM: I'm just going to hold still for a second and listen. Do I hear anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27? You hear a very faint breathing. Breathing that is trying to stay quiet, but by the sheer immensity of the beast creating the sound, you can pick up the very subtle movement of air through the normally still cavern. (faint breathing noise)

LIAM: I'm going to quietly take– I'm going to back up 15 feet. (whispers) For everyone who's next to me, and for those who are not, it is in here. It is awake. And it is waiting for us.

CHRIS: What did he say?

LIAM: Pike. Don't. Move.

ASHLEY: I'm so still.

LIAM: Just coming running to go when shit goes down, but don't move.

TRAVIS: (whispers) What about putting her on my back?

LIAM: Grog, don't move yet. I'm going to go back in for another look.

SAM: Alone?

MATT: Stealth.

LIAM: Well, yeah. I'm not a barbarian. I'm going to go along the edge closest to you and move back to where I stopped to listen.

MATT: About there would be in tandem with where you were.

LIAM: And I'm going to go another ten feet in, looking.

MATT: As he curls back, the cavern is revealed further. The pool does come to an end. There are pieces of stone that jut out of the floor. You do see now, scattered across the grounds, occasionally a bit of shine, a little coin– gold, silver– elements of wealth that've been dragged deeper into the cavern that have left behind them some remnants in the process of being carried and carted in.

LIAM: If I look back, can I see my sister from where I am?

MATT: Actually, no. Because she's really well stealthed.

LIAM: She can't see me either?

MATT: No. You guys have no visual perspective on each other. You've all stealthed away from your own party.

LIAM: Okay. There's a pool of acid right by me, yeah?

MATT: Yes, there is.

LIAM: Is there dim light here?

MATT: The light grows dim at about this point, then it becomes darkness at about this point.

LIAM: But you said that I can see a pool of liquid, right?

MATT: Yeah. What little bit of daylight that's coming in the cavern entrance would be over here.

LIAM: Is the surface of the liquid flat as far as I can see?

MATT: What you can see, it is flat. There's a little, very faint breeze that occasionally comes through so there's a slight disturbance here and there, but no specific visual disturbance.

LIAM: How far along that pool can I actually see? If you had to do a cut-off point?

MATT: Because of your darkvision, being an elf, you can see pretty much to the edge of this.

LIAM: Okay. So it doesn't look like there's a big divot?

MATT: There's no displacement of the pool.

LIAM: I'm going to creep along the wall towards that pillar. I'll stop in that corner, and then move towards you one. Does it give me a better view?

MATT: A little bit of a further view, just the cavern continues in that direction.

LIAM: Can I still hear the same thing?

MATT: You can hear it very faintly. You can't quite make out the source. There is something about the room and the air that's traveling through here. The sound itself, you're just barely catching it and it seems to be reverberating to a small extent off the walls of this cavern, which carry sound very well.

LIAM: What do I see if I look up?

MATT: You look up, you see about 60 feet, 70 feet in the air, just past where your vision begins to fade– The only reason you know there's a ceiling there is because there are a few points of rock, the top of the cavern does descend into stalactites– it is?

CHRIS: Stalactites, yes.

MATT: Yes. Thank you.

LIAM: There's no large outcrops that this thing could be sitting on?

MATT: Not from what you can see, no. The mineral build-up of the inside of this cavern leads to a direct, slick surface in the walls. The minerals rounded off most of the stone.

LIAM: I'm going to backtrack. I'm going to find my sister. And I'm still very little. It's at the back of that cavern. It's not in the pool of acid that's near the front, and it's not just past that. It keeps going back. So if we're going to do this, and we're all just going to throw ourselves into it, and let the chips fall where they may. The best thing that I can do right now is take it unawares, hurt it for as much as I can–

LAURA: Are you kidding me right now?

LIAM: I'm not kidding you! I want to kill this thing. This is the first stepping stone, and I could potentially take it out. Catch it unawares before it vomits on all of you. I want to do it, and I just want to know that you're going to come in after and finish it if you need to. I told you what I want to do.

LAURA: All right. I will give you a minute head start to get across the room. After that, I'm coming in. So you better hope you're at the dragon by that point.

LIAM: I start off. Come back and tug. (whispers) Jenga.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LIAM: I'm going back to where I was.

MATT: All right. What is it?

LIAM: With Pass Without a Trace? 43.

MATT: All right. So you're back where you were. The rest of you, what are you doing?

CHRIS: Well, he's a mad little one, isn't he?

SAM: He's not usually little.

(laughter)

LIAM: I'd like to go around the column, and around the edge of the wall.

MATT: This opens up slightly more, and you get to see a portion of the mineral growth– a lot of the moisture that has coalesced into the ceiling has come into a central point, and over time, it just built up these central columns of rock and natural materials. A few pools have gathered towards the base. You see portions of the ground where elements of the acrid liquid that filled the pool over here just dripped in. Whether they began this way or turned by the dragon's presence, you are unaware. But that's as far as you can see.

LIAM: Further along the wall, that little rock– yeah. And just a little bit past it. And then closer to you.

MATT: At this point, you can make out that additional pool of acid, the far back corner and a risen platform, you see the portion of the cavernous stone beginning to mass into a higher level towards the far back corner.

LIAM: I listen.

MATT: Roll a perception check.

LIAM: 20.

MATT: 20. You listen in… Silence. Stillness. The very faint whisper of wind far behind you.

LIAM: Around the entire wall. Further, past that pool of acid, even. Further corner.

SAM: Has it been a minute yet?

TALIESIN: About half a minute.

MATT: As you come around this corner, being as careful as you can, looking around you– (impact). Your shoulder hits something.

LIAM: Stab.

MATT: Roll initiative.

LIAM: I'm going to call it. I mean, mostly I'm 14. I'll take it, that means 19.

MATT: All right. So you have just bumped into the currently invisible form of Umbrasyl lying in wait in the far corner of the cavern. That would be a 20 initiative from Umbrasyl.

LIAM: Fuck. You.

LAURA: How long has it been?

MATT: At this travel pace, it's been about 45 seconds or so.

LIAM: Jenga!

(laughter)

MATT: You hear “Jenga!” out of the back of the earring as, let's say the rest of you guys are right here.

LAURA: I still want to be stealthed on the broom but I take off into the cavern.

MATT: I assume Trinket is in your necklace?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All right. This is going to be you, with your big stick.

CHRIS: Awesome!

MATT: Chilling here with the rest of the party. So, at the top of this round, you just hear the growl, the snarl. (snarling) You say “Jenga,” blades already at the ready, you go to stab as (swooshing) all of a sudden, you hear this swishing sound of air being cut through at such a speed that it causes a high-pitched whine. Claws and teeth come spinning out of nowhere. You can't even see your attacker but you feel the brunt force behind each of these blows.

LIAM: Because it's invisible, is there no Uncanny Dodge?

MATT: No, you've still got Uncanny Dodge on one of the attacks. Just from your roguish instincts.

LIAM: Displacer Cloak.

MATT: Correct. It gets disadvantage on the first attack, which is going to be a bite. That's a natural 19, and a two! With the two, that brings it to a 17.

LIAM: Nope.

MATT: So with that, you (whoosh) see for a split second, the ripple of teeth snap before you, missing your face by mere inches before they disappear once again. Two more claws (whoosh) towards you. The first one, that's a 19 again and a seven. That's going to be a 22.

LIAM: Just hits. Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: Oh, your AC would be 20 because you're not hasted right now.

LIAM: Oh, you're right. Thank you.

MATT: So that would put you at 18 points of slashing damage.

LIAM: Halved to nine.

MATT: Halved to nine. Also your displacement is gone from your cloak.

LIAM: For this round?

MATT: Yeah. For the next attack, it's a 19. Misses you? 20? Yeah. The second claw swings through, at this point, from the pain of the first strike of the dragon claw hits you, you back up to the very edge of the cave and duck out of the way as you hear the wind change. As you do, you hear the stone crash behind you as the claw misses you, slamming instead to the side of the cavern wall. It's now your turn.

LIAM: I'm going to stay right here. I'm going to hold my turn until one of my friends is on top of this thing and then I'm going to stab it.

MATT: You hold your action until one of your friends is on it and then you move? Okay.

LIAM: Not on it, but against it, attacking it. Melee attack.

MATT: So that ends your turn. Everyone else, I need you to roll initiative.

MARISHA: Oh, shitballs!

TRAVIS: Balls of shit.

MARISHA: Whoa! Percy!

MATT: Your initiative from before was–?

LIAM: 19.

MATT: So 25 to 20?

LAURA: 22.

TALIESIN: 30.

MARISHA: He rolled a natural 20!

MATT: (laughs) Percy!

LAURA: Are you on the broom with me still?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm hanging so I can drop.

MATT: So that's 20. 20 to 15?

CHRIS: Another 19.

MATT: Another 19! Nice!

MARISHA: 17.

ASHLEY: 18.

LAURA: Nice, Pike!

MATT: So Pike then Keyleth.

TRAVIS: A mere 16.

MATT: Scanlan, what did you get?

(laughter)

SAM: I got an eight.

MATT: And Scanlan taking the rear. As you guys hear the crashing of stone at the far corner accompanied directly after the whisper of Vax's cry-out of “Jenga!” you already know shit is going down. Percy, you're up first. Clutching the bottom of the broom that has not moved yet, what are you doing with your turn?

TALIESIN: I'm going to drop down. I'll let go of the broom. I'm going to just fire blind where I heard the noise coming from.

MATT: So you're firing in this direction?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: Go ahead and make your attacks at disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Disadvantage. That is a 25.

MATT: Due to the massive size of this currently still invisible entity, you do manage to catch an odd bullet towards its form. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Oh my god. Ten points of piercing damage.

MATT: All righty. (gunshot sound) Gun goes off, echoes, little bit of dust comes loose from the ceiling and falls down as you ready for your next shot.

TALIESIN: I'll take the next shot. Forget it. Might as well go for it.

MATT: At disadvantage.

TALIESIN: That's 20.

MATT: This time, the shot goes the second time (gunshot sound) poofs against some stone in the distance, not hitting its mark.

TALIESIN: Third shot for the run. Fucking–

MARISHA: Natural 20.

TALIESIN: And a one.

MATT: So with that, the third shot (click), nothing emerges from it. And you look down. It's not been a day for Percy.

TALIESIN: It's not been a day for Percy. I'm going to start making a dash into the corner there, up in the–

MATT: Not a dash, because you used your action.

TALIESIN: No, I'll make a run. Yes, to the wall.

CHRIS: Is that some sort of weapon?

TALIESIN: Not anymore, it's not!

MATT: As she takes her one good arm and cleans out, missing an eye now or maybe missing an eardrum. (laughs) That's going to end your turn, Percy?

TALIESIN: Oh god, this is a terrible idea. I'm going to roll and hide behind that pillar behind me. If that's okay?

MATT: This one, right here?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I've got to fix this.

MATT: That brings us to Vex.

LAURA: Yes. I'm going to fly on my broom as far in as I can. And land, maybe on that? And just shoot arrows towards where I heard it coming from. I feel like I have one blazing bowstring left, because I used it once in the last battle, right?

MATT: You would still have one more use, yes.

LAURA: Okay. Then I'm going to try it through the blazing bowstring.

MATT: Go for it. At disadvantage on this shot, as you cannot see the actual entity. You're firing into the darkness.

LIAM: Natural 20. And another natural 20?

LAURA: Piece of shit! 19.

MATT: 19? Nope!

ASHLEY: Oh! War God's Blessing.

MATT: Okay. As your reaction, you guide her– though the blazing bowstring was unfortunately used on the first attack that missed.

LAURA: That was just for the first attack. I rolled twice for disadvantage. So that's the blazing bowstring.

MATT: Okay, I misunderstood. As you go for the attack, you see the actual arrow bursting into flames, not quite sure where to fire. You're about to pull back and aim and Pike shouts to you, putting her hand out. Suddenly, a spark of divine energy hits the front of the bow and corrects its course, beyond your actual arm motion, and you release, based on the faith you have in Pike. The arrow strikes true. You hear a slight growling roar from the distance. Go ahead and roll damage.

ASHLEY: Strike good and true!

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22, nice.

LAURA: On my first attack! If I release Trinket, is that an attack? Or is that a bonus action?

MATT: It would say in the actual item.

LAURA: Raven's Slumber. You can make a melee attack. No, that's not it. Bonus action to release it! I'm going to use a bonus action, and I'm going to shout at Trinket to go run towards my brother. I'm going to attack it again.

MATT: You send Trinket out, ten feet in front. Trinket is going to go– it's 40 feet, right?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Trinket rushes forward there. You go make your second attack. Trinket goes: (angry bear growls) big old grizzly bear charging into the darkness, growling echoing through the cavern.

LAURA: Oh, disadvantage. 27.

MATT: 27 with disadvantage still hits, yeah. Your honed senses to dragon-kind, you can remember the mass, and general size and placement based on the sound you heard from the growls from the first impact you made. You just strike again in the same direction, hitting true. Roll damage.

LAURA: 12.

MATT: 12 damage.

LAURA: Is that sneak attack because my brother is next to it?

LIAM: It's occupied with me.

LAURA: So I would have gotten the sneak attack on both those? Or just on the one?

MATT: Just on the one. Yes, I'll allow it because he is currently threatening it. It was a lucky shot. It was a very lucky shot.

LAURA: Additional five.

MATT: All righty, good to know. So, total of–

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. Thank you. Both arrows done. Trinket rushing in–

LAURA: I want to duck down if I can, behind that whatever that I'm standing on now.

MATT: You can duck down, but you've used most of your action in this turn to sail in, and you can't hide per se.

LAURA: Okay. I just want to duck behind it so I'm away from anything flying at me.

MATT: Makes sense. All right, so we're now at 20. At this point in time, the roar hits (roaring), echoing through the cavern. As the echoing begins to vibrate and the noise doesn't subside, the low hum turns instead to a (buzzing) as seemingly out of the pool of acid, a cloud of biting, stinging insects emerges.

MARISHA: He did Insect Plague.

MATT: (buzzing) Floats in this direction, getting the three of you right there. I'll say for the purposes of this that you guys are both in that radius. Anyway, this cloud of insects moves in to– I need Percy, Shale, and Vex to make constitution saving throws.

CHRIS: Aw, eight!

TALIESIN: 21.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. So you guys both, being dexterous and quick, but also able to maintain your form– the best you can at this turn– manage to pull out of the way without too much impact. However, poor Shale is surrounded by the insects.

CHRIS: Slow and half-deaf.

MATT: You take 12 points of piercing damage as the insects riddle you with bites and stings.

SAM: Shale, do you have any gold teeth or hidden savings accounts that we should also know about?

LAURA: She can't hear you, she's deaf.

MATT: At this point now, you hear a few footfalls, Vax. You see a splash in the pool next to you that almost scatters against you, bits of it hitting the edge of your armor, but the armor absorbs the blow, being attuned towards acid resistance. A few other steps as it begins to walk away. I'll allow you to make an attack of opportunity with disadvantage–

LIAM: With disadvantage, but– Yeah, okay.

MATT: Yeah, as you sense that it's moving away, you wildly swing out in front of you.

LIAM: Nah. 15.

MATT: 15. Whiffs on air. However, (heavy footfalls) moving forward. A voice comes roaring out into the area, “You dare soil my home after what you've done below?! I will watch you dissolve before I suck down your liquid forms!” I need Vex, Pike, Keyleth, Scanlan, and Percy to all make dexterity saving throws.

TALIESIN: Do I not have cover?

MATT: Not enough to prevent this. It's a lobbed stream of liquid acid that comes and surrounds, corroding.

LAURA: Do we get advantage on any of it?

MATT: Not unless you have something that gives you advantage on him.

TALIESIN: I'm spending a Resolve because that was bullshit. Can I burn another Resolve? Goddamn it.

MATT: Nope. All right, so.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words to buff my roll?

MATT: You use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.

SAM: But not to– That seems right, yeah. All right. 18.

MATT: 18, all right. Hold on, I'll just double-check while you're saying this. Just to bring up the ability.

SAM: I should know this.

MATT: It would have to be a damage roll, because there's no attack roll. There's no other roll incorporated on this other than the damage roll.

SAM: Got it. It just happens.

MATT: Right. But it reduces the damage roll, which affects everybody.

ASHLEY: Wait! I think I cast Resistance. I cast it on Keyleth, I cast it on–

LAURA: Me. And I think you cast it on Scanlan.

MATT: It's faded since it's a concentration spell.

TALIESIN: Scanlan's got the armor.

MATT: Yeah. If you were to use Cutting Words on this, it would reduce the damage all of you would take from it.

SAM: All right, I will use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.

MATT: What are your cutting words, Scanlan?

SAM: My cutting words are, “Your lower intestine smells like shit!”

(laughter)

MATT: Go ahead and roll your bardic inspiration die.

SAM: A ten? Shit roll. Three!

MATT: So 18 saving throw. What was yours?

TALIESIN: Ten.

MATT: Keyleth?

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: Vex? One. Pike?

ASHLEY: Seven.

MATT: Seven. Okay, reduced by three, you all suffer 47 points of acid damage.

SAM: Including me, with my acid armor?

MATT: You take half of that.

LAURA: Aren't you glad I gave you the armor?

MATT: You take 23 points of acid damage. After its long, angry, boastful diatribe, as it rears back to blow, your words confuse it, and the spray seems a little off-center than what it intended. However, most of you are now currently dealing with the searing pain of the acid pressed against your bodies. Ending that turn, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Did I see where the ejection of acid came out from?

MATT: You did. It came from there, this area.

LIAM: Am I still at a disadvantage even though I saw right where that crap came out?

MATT: Correct. Because you don't know if it moved away or not. You don't know exactly where it is. You just know it's somewhere in that vicinity.

LIAM: I'm going to throw two daggers at it. I hope that Trinket's near it, but we'll see. So, at disadvantage. Bollocks! That's 15.

MATT: Nope.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: 22 just hits. Trinket, however, is actually adjacent to Umbrasyl. So you could do sneak attack damage.

MARISHA: Whoa! What's up?

LIAM: Keen Dagger. It's 26.

MATT: 26. All right. So one dagger just vanishes into the darkness. The other one sticks into the hide for a second before disappearing in a plume of smoke, reappearing at the side of your belt. You hear a low (snarling grunt).

LIAM: Can I use my movement to go along the back edge of the cave as far as I can? Directly opposite from my family.

MATT: All right. Looking at the rest of this cavern–

LAURA: Look at all the gold, hiding over there!

MATT: There is what seems to be the majority of the funds that were gathered from Westruun, and whatever else of the previous dragon's hoard have currently been brought over to the new lair. Who knows how much has been–

LIAM: I thought that was his magic healing spot, but I guessed wrong.

MATT: So, that end your turn?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Now it comes to Shale.

CHRIS: I'm with insects, right?

MATT: You are currently surrounded by stinging, biting insects.

CHRIS: Okay. I will stride forth. I'm slow and old. I move 20, so I'll use all my movement, 40, to advance.

MATT: There you go. You come pushing through, brushing them off with your stump and your staff, waving it in front. Angrily growling, you come to rest at the side of this one pillar that juts out of the ground, with Vex right above you.

CHRIS: I'll dimly look into the darkness and see if I can see, hear, or there's just gray mist in front of my eyes right now.

MATT: You can't see anything. But you do hear right in front of you a growling, snarling bear. You see elements and flashes of the bear that you saw Vex summon forth from her throat.

TRAVIS: And the dagger disappeared into something, right?

CHRIS: All right. But I can't hear the dragon? At all? It's stomping around.

MATT: It's stomping around a little bit. You saw where the actual projectile came from, so you know it's somewhere in this vicinity.

CHRIS: Well, you're not very brave, are you? Invisible! Hiding! Afraid to show your face? Taunt it. Oh, bollocks!

(laughter)

CHRIS: Well, that would be a nine.

MATT: A nine. You hear, slowly curling out from the darkness ahead of you, “Bravery means nothing. Survival and victory mean everything!”

CHRIS: Oh, shut up, you flying suitcase!

MATT: And that's how you end a round. Pike, you're up.

MARISHA: Oh, it's something my grandma would say. So good.

ASHLEY: Yeah. I'm going to hold my action and I'm going to backpack onto Grog.

MATT: Okay. So you move over and leap up onto Grog's back, holding tightly. What's the trigger for your action that you're holding?

ASHLEY: On his next attack on somebody.

MATT: The next time you sense the dragon is attacking somebody?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: All right. What action are you holding? Is it a spell?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: So you begin preparing the spell. You are now concentrating on it, as you're holding the back of Grog. Okay. Holding that bit, that brings us to Keyleth. What are you doing?

MARISHA: If I move through Insect Plague, will I take damage? Or is it if I end in it?

MATT: You don't know.

CHRIS: I seemed to waltz through it.

MARISHA: That's true. You waltzed through it. And you didn't start in it, did you?

CHRIS: I did.

MARISHA: Oh. But you took the damage up top, you didn't take damage again after you got out of it. All right. I want to see if I can move. I'm having a hard time seeing, Matt. Can I get my full movement of 30 feet into this corner here?

MATT: Over here?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: You're going to get up around there, unless you want to try and go over the top of the rocks. That way is going to require a climb check.

MARISHA: Oh really, I can parkour it? Yeah!

MATT: All right, go ahead and make a strength check.

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: Yeah, it's not too hard. You ran up, grab, leap over the side. You can get right there.

MARISHA: Oh, okay. I think the dragon is roughly here?

MATT: In this vicinity. You can see Trinket is currently snarling and lashing out and biting in this area of the cavern.

MARISHA: I'm really sorry, Grog. I'm going to cast Faerie Fire, roughly– Yeah, somewhere where I think he is.

LAURA: Why is that bad?

MARISHA: Means you don't have acid resistance anymore. It's a concentration spell. But none of us can see him, yeah.

MATT: All righty. So, Faerie Fire. You guys watch as suddenly, this burst of somewhat violet-ish blue light, like a small, tiny explosion of glitter and starlight just hits the area and outlines the entirety of the large dragon Umbrasyl.

MARISHA: And with my bonus action–

MATT: Yeah, failed saving throw.

MARISHA: Damn right, he did. With my bonus action, I'm going to go into my–

MATT: Actually, you know what?

MARISHA: He's going to do his thing, isn't he?

ASHLEY: You know, you don't need to.

MATT: Yeah, I do. Third and final legendary resistance. You get a glimpse of where Umbrasyl is and then the magic dissipates. Umbrasyl vanishes from sight.

SAM: Shit.

TALIESIN: You've burned his third legendary action. You've burned it. It's gone.

SAM: Matt, did it also negate my disadvantage from Cutting Words, on the save?

MATT: He can succeed automatically. It's a choice to succeed.

SAM: Balls. So that's dead, too?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: Does he use the legendary action before he fails?

MATT: No. That's true. Yeah.

SAM: So it kills that too?

MATT: It does, yeah.

SAM: Nice. No, my thing's dead too. He double-fucked us.

MARISHA: Great. Fuck you, asshole!

LAURA: He doesn't save it like that?

MATT: Well, no. Essentially he rolled at disadvantage to make the saving throw. Failed it. And then decided to succeed using legendary resistance.

MARISHA: Okay. But it's gone! They're gone.

ASHLEY: They're gone, gone?

MATT: As far as you know, from previous experience with dragons, there are no further uses of its legendary resistance.

MARISHA: What a dick.

MATT: Does that end your turn, Keyleth? It's a level one spell, you still have more up your sleeves if you wanted to try it later.

MARISHA: I know. I don't think I'm going to go into my beast shape form so I can do another spell next turn. Can I just tuck and see if I could take a bonus action to hide in this little nook and cranny here?

MATT: You can't use a bonus action to hide, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Because I'm not a rogue?

MATT: Because you're not a rogue. Sorry, girl.

MARISHA: Can I hug that pillar and say, (panting)?

MATT: You can totally do that. And you are currently hugging in the pillar going, (panting). At the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use two of its legendary actions to wing attack. It's going to beat its wings, everything within 15 feet, which right now would only be Trinket, has to go ahead and succeed on a dexterity saving throw. Go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw for Trinket.

LAURA: I'm going to roll the brown dice for Trinket. Dexterity? 12.

MATT: 12. Okay. So Trinket takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage–

LAURA: He's resistant to bludgeoning!

MATT: Because of the armor?

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: So takes seven points of bludgeoning damage. However, he is still knocked prone from the blast of wind that whooshes through the entirety of the cavern, causing dust to raise up. The cloud of insects gets shifted a little bit before having to reform back into its place from the sheer force. In doing so, suddenly, there's a rush of air, and two giant slamming sounds, as feet have placed themselves right up front with Shale and Vax. Vex. I've got a lot to concentrate on.

SAM: When I die, I'm coming back as a character named Vix.

MATT: Then you can find another Dungeon Master. All right, so that ends Keyleth's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I take the tiny Pike backpack, and I would like to run along the right, the farther wall from you. Opposite direction.

MATT: This way?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: 50 feet, using diagonals to try and get as far around that pool as I can.

MATT: That's about as far as you can get there. So that's movement with Pike on your back. So, that's your movement?

TRAVIS: Yep. And I'll use my bonus action to go into a rage.

MATT: All right. (growling)

TRAVIS: Hey Pike, gimme a slap!

ASHLEY: (slap)

TRAVIS: (growls)

MATT: Sends you into the rage. You still have your action. Anything you want to do?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: Are you holding your action for any particular thing?

TRAVIS: Well, I can't really hit him from here.

MATT: All right. That ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I can't see him, right?

MATT: Not from what you can tell, no.

SAM: Balls. I can see Vex, right? And Shale? Oh, shit. I can't do much without seeing him. Oh, here's what I will do: I'll start by inspiring Shale. I will just step out and sing, (singing) And I will always buff you! And then I will pick a place and cast Stinking Cloud.

MATT: Okay. You take your d10 inspiration die.

CHRIS: Excellent.

MATT: And Stinking Cloud. Haven't seen that in a while.

SAM: No! Oh well, it's too late, I already said it.

MATT: Stinking Cloud. Where are you setting it?

SAM: Can I have a pointer? Well, I'll just come over. Right here.

MATT: Right there? All right. We'll put this over here to keep track of the Stinking Cloud, we'll just know the insects are in this vicinity as most people have passed beyond it. With that, Umbrasyl is going to attempt a constitution saving throw. Three plus 14, that's a 17. What's the DC?

SAM: 20.

MATT: All right. That will technically be at the start of its turn, but we will carry that over. All right. The cloud appears in this space. You can already hear (coughing). Are you going to move or stay where you are?

SAM: There's no more cloud of insects, yeah?

MATT: It's still in this vicinity.

SAM: Is there any way to avoid it? Move up to where Kiki is or anything?

MATT: Yeah, if you want to make a strength check to climb.

SAM: All right, I'll do that. I'll move up to where Kiki is. 17.

MATT: 17. Yeah, you actually hopscotch up, leap over Percy and get up on top next to her over there.

SAM: Oh, Percy! Didn't notice your bald spot there.

TALIESIN: It just grows in lighter.

SAM: Sure.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. With that, it's going to use its third legendary action this turn to attempt a tail attack against you, Vex.

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: You're welcome.

LIAM: That's Vix.

MATT: I will stab you. That is a 19 to hit.

LAURA: Nope. 20.

MATT: 20! With that, you dodge out of the way. You feel the impact of some large, heavy slam onto the stone right next to you. Pieces of it break off, and then withdraws, barely dodging it in time. All right, that ends–

ASHLEY: Since he made an attack, can I?

MATT: Yes, you can.

ASHLEY: I would like to Command him to be visible. Reveal himself.

MATT: What's the word?

ASHLEY: Reveal! Appear!

MATT: Appear. There you go! Oh, that's cocked. All right. That is a19 plus 11. I'm pretty sure it makes the save.

ASHLEY: Fuck you!

MATT: Sorry.

ASHLEY: Do I still get a bonus action?

MATT: That would've been during your turn. You can only hold your action.

ASHLEY: (snarls frustratedly)

MATT: Good try. Brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Oh god! Okay, I'm going to take a second to try and pray that my second gun doesn't break because that's going to get really ugly! And it doesn't! My gun is fine.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: My gun is fine. But that's it. I'm going to start running straight down, as far as my legs will take me. Not that way, towards the pool.

MATT: Towards the pool?

TALIESIN: Right there. Oh no, that's the insects, that's right. So, yeah.

MARISHA: As long as you get out of it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to roll around to the stone to the right, then. As far as I can go.

MATT: You can get there. You're outside of the insect cloud, not a worry. As you're running, you're cleaning it, polishing, loading it. Okay, looks good.

TALIESIN: Oh, yes. I'm going to spend my bonus action to do a quick heal.

MATT: Okay, your Second Wind?

TALIESIN: My Second Wind.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Oh, god. That was awful. That's okay. So, yeah. Good. You can move on, sorry.

MATT: Okay. Vex.

LAURA: Do I have any kind of sense of– Ugh, your Stinking Cloud is right there.

MATT: Yeah. You do see some elements of the cloud are displaced in places. It's not showing you exactly where it is, but you are aware that the entity of Umbrasyl is directly in front of Shale, and nearly directly in front of you.

MARISHA: Enough to negate the disadvantage?

MATT: No. Not to mention the fact that you are technically in its melee range. So any of your ranged attacks–

LAURA: Are at disadvantage again, right?

MATT: Unless it's five foot. Is it five foot, or is it melee? Trying to remember. I think it's five feet. But regardless, it's close to you, it's bad news.

LAURA: If Trinket gets up, does that use any of my stuff? Trinket can move freely–

MATT: Trinket can move independently of you.

LAURA: So Trinket is going to get up.

MATT: It's half-movement, yeah.

LAURA: And he's going to bite Umbrasyl's tail to try to distract him, so I can run between his legs.

MATT: Okay. So Trinket's going to go ahead and– roll a perception check for Trinket.

LIAM: Trinket, snack attack!

LAURA: Oh, he's got a keen sense of smell, so he's got advantage on smell perception.

MATT: But there is a Stinking Cloud right there. Roll again. We'll see if Trinket can discern between–

LAURA: Well, I rolled a 15. And I don't know what I add to it.

MATT: That would be Trinket's wisdom–

LAURA: –oh, perception, seven. So 22

MATT: 22. Okay. Trinket (bear sniffs and growl) runs past here, but can only make 20 feet of its movement because he used the rest to get out of prone. However, strafes aside and begins reaching out and starts snapping, so you want to give Trinket–?

LAURA: He's going to attack him.

MATT: Okay. As part of your attack action? Is that what you're doing?

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to have Trinket do one of his attacks so I can move and run.

MATT: As your bonus action on it? Okay, go for it. Have Trinket roll for an attack. With disadvantage because it is invisible.

LAURA: That doesn't count? I feel like it still counts, though. It's only 15.

MATT: 15. Trinket slashes out in the air. With the obfuscation of the Stinking Cloud and the invisible dragon, Trinket's just getting mouthfuls of air.

LAURA: What does Stinking Cloud do to me?

MARISHA and SAM: Makes you sick.

LAURA: Fuck. I try to run away. I try to run around and run past Umbrasyl.

SAM: You're not in the cloud.

LAURA: But I would go through it if I tried to run between its legs. I'll just try to run along to the side.

MATT: On the broom, still?

LAURA: Sure! Why the fuck not?! I'm on the broom. Does it matter?

MATT: I mean, that will give you a little more action, you just can't attack from the broom because you'll have disadvantage on your attacks since you haven't finished your set-up yet.

LAURA: Jesus. I just want to run, on the broom, and use my bonus action. Is that as far as I can get?

MATT: As far as you can get on your regular feet.

LAURA: On my broom, though?

MATT: There.

LAURA: And can I use my bonus action to hide? Can I try to hide?

MATT: You are completely out in the open. You have no way of hiding right now. You be can like, “Hide! You don't see me!”

LIAM: You can dash and get further away.

LAURA: I'm going to dash and I'm going to get further away.

LIAM: Rogue bonus action? Hide, dash, disengage.

MATT: Yes, you can.

LAURA: Yeah! I'm going to hide behind those things.

MATT: There?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, you can get there. However, as you rush by, Umbrasyl does get an attack of opportunity on you. He's going to make a bite as you rush by. That is going to be a 30 to hit?

LAURA: I think that hits.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: Isn't it at a disadvantage since he's in smoke?

MATT: Huh?

LAURA: Because he's in farts?

MATT: No. That's not quite what it does.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh, that's a d10. Sorry. You take 25 points of piercing damage. Plus an additional eight points of acid damage from the inside of its mouth.

LAURA: Cool. Tight, tight.

MATT: A total of 33 points of damage as you rush past. All right, that ends your turn, Vex?

LAURA: Oh, that it does.

MATT: All right. The insect cloud fades away, insects just dying off and dropping to the ground in piles of currently twitching insects. However, the acid pools suddenly begin to rumble and expand and reach out.

LAURA: I'm glad I hid by another acid pool.

MATT: Any creature within 20 feet of the pool has to make a strength saving throw. So that will be Shale, Grog, Pike and Vex.

LAURA: Yay.

CHRIS: Five!

SAM: You have inspiration, if you want to use it.

ASHLEY: What are we rolling for?

LAURA: A strength or a dex saving throw?

MATT: Strength.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23, good to know. Pike?

ASHLEY: 21.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13. And? Five. All right, so you guys both manage to, as the pool swishes out and comes up to your knees, Grog, and you just pull back and lean against the wall. As the pool subsides back, no immediate effect. Just barely manages to catch you. However, both Shale and Vax are pulled 20 feet into the pool–

LAURA: Vex.

MATT: I'm sorry. Vex. I keep saying it now. Over and over again. Pulled into the actual acid pool.

LAURA: It's like adding insult to injury. You're going to die and I'm going to call you your brother the entire time.

MATT: Yep. I'm sorry about that. You both are knocked prone and pulled into the water. Because it is an acid pit, you both also suffer 12 points of acid damage. Both Shale and Vex.

MARISHA: That's a thing that can happen. All right.

MATT: All right. Now Umbrasyl, who failed the saving throw–

SAM: Gets to spend his entire turn coughing.

MATT: I can't believe Stinking Cloud worked.

SAM: Spends his entire turn.

MATT: The creature spends its action retching and reeling.

LIAM: I hope he coughs his innards out the hole in his gut. Dragon hernia.

MATT: Yep. So the action is spent, the dragon is just (coughing), which is good because it rolled a five and got its breath weapon back. But it can't use it this turn because it's coughing and “You– I will– ” It rears back, about to spit the acid before (coughs) and bits of it come streaming out of the nose, like the milk-in-the-nostrils thing except for it's acid. That's the dragon. Okay. That ends its action. It is going to move out, see if it's– I forgot to roll concentration for the Invisibility on the last attack that happened. I just rolled a one. With that, it appears once again on the map. The Invisibility spell no longer there.

MARISHA: Oh, thank god!

LAURA: Now we can watch it kill us.

MATT: It's going to stomp over, out of the cloud, right there.

SAM: Does Trinket get an attack?

MATT: He does, actually. Go ahead and roll for Trinket.

LAURA: Yeah, he does! I don't know which one to roll here. They've all been betraying me. 17.

MATT: 17? That misses. Or it hits and Trinket's claws streak across the back of the dragon's hide. No damage sustained. But good job, Trinket. All right, so–

LAURA: He's trying, man. He's out. He's so brave.

MATT: He's doing great. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to dart out behind the pillar of stone there. And I'm going to chuck a dagger at it.

MATT: All right. What's the far range on it?

LIAM: 60. I'm a Sharpshooter, so there's no disadvantage.

MATT: He's out of range.

LIAM: Then I'll move closer. I mean, I know how far I can throw a dagger, so I want to get up close enough to be within range to throw a dagger.

MATT: Still can't get close enough, not with your full movement. You can move 30 feet.

LIAM: Where are you? You're in the acid?

LAURA: I am in the acid.

LIAM: Oh! I'm going to go to my sister, I'm going to drag her out and I'm going to pop the one healing potion I have down her gullet.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm going to pull her behind, so we're both behind that pillar.

MATT: Okay, so you pull her behind the pillar. You go ahead and feed her the healing potion. That is your turn. He dragged you out of the acid pool.

LIAM: Potion of greater healing.

MATT: All right, so that is a 4d4 plus four healing to you. That ends Vax's turn. Shale, you're up.

CHRIS: All right. I'm going to stand up if I can and make my way back onto firm rock. Do I take any damage when I start my turn?

MATT: You do, actually. You take six points of acid damage. You've now stepped up right there. The dragon is fully visible to you.

CHRIS: Pick on someone your own size! And I whack him on the derriere with my staff.

MATT: Go for it. You have three attacks, correct?

CHRIS: The first one is a very sad 14. I'm not going to waste the d10 on that.

MATT: Across the hide, no damage.

CHRIS: Oh my god!

MARISHA: No, Chris, no.

SAM: Inspiration?

CHRIS: Natural one.

MATT: As a level 13 fighter, don't you get a third attack with your action?

CHRIS: What's that? Oh, yes, you're right. That one, I rolled a 19. I will spend the inspiration die and turn it into a 26.

MATT: Okay. Roll damage with the quarterstaff.

CHRIS: I do 11 points of whacky-whacky damage and try to bait this thing into turning on me.

MATT: Okay.

CHRIS: I will also use my second wind.

MATT: All right. Go for it.

CHRIS: To regain 15 hit points.

MATT: 15 hit points to you, go for it. Ending Shale's turn, that brings us to Pike. But at the end of Shale's turn, the dragon is going to use a legendary action to attempt a tail attack against you, Scanlan, as you are the source of the Stinking Cloud that caused it to cough. It goes, (growls) “Foolish bard, get back into my stomach!” And as it whips around, its tail comes streaking overhead and it rolls a natural one!

(cheering)

MATT: As it spins around, that's when your staff actually hits the back of its hide. As it does, it gooses it a little, in a sensitive place, and the tail arcs strangely and slams into the stone, next to you, missing you by about six inches.

SAM: Ah! Great. I'll take it.

MATT: Pike, it's your turn.

ASHLEY: All right. (sing-song) I'm going to Guiding Bolt him right up the butt!

(laughter)

MATT: You're in the position for it.

ASHLEY: Yep!

MATT: What level are you casting Guiding Bolt?

ASHLEY: Third.

MATT: Third level on Guiding Bolt. All right. That will put it at 6d6. So go ahead and roll a spell attack.

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

MATT: Go ahead and roll 6d6 and we'll double it.

ASHLEY: And double it?

MATT: It's a critical hit.

ASHLEY: I've never done that before!

CHRIS: Right up the butt!

MARISHA: Monstah! Kill him!

LIAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Kan-cho!

ASHLEY: Oh my god, 24! One more! So, 50 points.

MATT: 50 points of radiant damage right up Umbrasyl's posterior. Suddenly as Pike, still clutching onto the back of Grog, you reach and grab the symbol of Sarenrae, leaving your sword to the side of your sheath, hold it forward. And as you do, you concentrate, a glowing beam of radiant energy shoots forward just as Shale knocks the backside of Umbrasyl. The tail streaks overhead to hit Scanlan, leaves you a nice, direct shot right at the dragon rump. There's a dull (impact) sound, and Umbrasyl sits straight up for a second (confused noise, explosion) as there's a burst of divine, explosive energy right in the posterior (painful growl). Looking back, there's now a shiny glow, pulsing from the back of Umbrasyl's body. And the next attack has advantage against Umbrasyl.

ASHLEY: Still alive!

MATT: That's your action. You still have your movement and bonus, if you want.

ASHLEY: Okay. I think I'm going to stay, and then bonus action, I'm going to throw up a Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: Okay. Where do you want your Spiritual Weapon to go? What level is Spiritual Weapon, Second level? Yep.

ASHLEY: Yeah. A really large meathook.

MATT: All right. Where are you setting it?

ASHLEY: Right at his back.

MATT: All right. Sitting right there at the tail of Umbrasyl, this giant, glowing, radiant meathook appears and makes its strike. Go ahead and make your spell attack against Umbrasyl.

ASHLEY: 27.

MATT: All right. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It's a 1d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: Ten.

MATT: Nice, all right. Going to stay where you are? Or you going to move?

ASHLEY: I'm going to stay with my Grog.

MATT: So you're still piggybacking on Grog. Got it. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Keyleth, you're up. Actually, at the end of Pike's turn–

ASHLEY: You know what, I'm sorry, I'm going to get off his back.

MATT: Okay. You're staying where you are, though?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you'll be there. At the end of your turn, Umbrasyl's going to use another legendary action to make a second tail attack at Scanlan again, frustrated by this whole circumstance.

SAM: I'm sure he is.

MATT: That's a 20.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words?

MATT: You may, if you want to.

SAM: All right.

MATT: It's a natural 20.

SAM: Oh?!

MATT: You could reduce the damage though, with your Cutting Words.

SAM: All right, I'll do that.

MATT: Probably for the best. For that, you suffer 28 points of bludgeoning damage. As the tail swoops down, finding its mark, slamming into you, sending you against the wall of the stonework, and you stumble forward back into place, feeling already the impact of the bludgeoning wound.

SAM: That's a four, so.

MATT: So you reduce that to 24.

TALIESIN: That halved? No, that's not halved. Sorry– brain!

MATT: So 24 points of bludgeoning damage from the attack. However, Umbrasyl's next saving throw is at a disadvantage because of Mythcarver. Now, Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: Okay. Faerie Fire (poof) right in front of me. Right on top of him. It gives everybody advantage on attacks against him.

MATT: Yes, it does.

LAURA: That's great.

MARISHA: I hope he's got enough hit points to make it worth it.

MATT: With disadvantage on the saving throw.

MARISHA: Yeah, take it, bitch! Glitter bomb! It's like a Kesha music video.

MATT: So that's a four plus nine because of the disadvantage. I rolled a ten and a four. That will bring it to 13. It does not succeed. You watch as a second burst of purplish energy surrounds Umbrasyl, radiating a glow.

CHRIS: Who's the prettiest dragon?

MARISHA: You're so pretty!

MATT: Gilmore would love this right now. “Fancy dragon! Now we're talking!” You went from being not able to see the dragon to very much being able to see the dragon. All right.

MARISHA: I'm going to use my bonus action to turn into a water elemental.

MATT: Okay! Look at you being a druid and shit.

MARISHA: Yeah. That's how I roll.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Get it, girl! Get it, get it, girl!

MATT: Water elemental Keyleth. Are you going to stay there?

MARISHA: Can I move?

MATT: If you'd like to.

MARISHA: Am I in his range of attack?

MATT: You gather, yes. Pretty big range.

MARISHA: Honestly, Umbrasyl is so fucking big, I can't see what's going on in front of me.

MATT: You're right there.

MARISHA: Is Scanlan in front of me?

MATT: Scanlan is right next to you, to the right.

MARISHA: Can I step in the front and shield Scanlan?

MATT: Unfortunately, the cliff ends right there. So you couldn't get in front of Scanlan without dropping onto a lower platform.

MARISHA: What about anybody else?

MATT: Percy is down there. You could fill some of Umbrasyl's space but you're not going to be able to guard anybody from an attack, unfortunately. Especially being an entity made of water, not a whole lot of defensive strategy in there.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm next to Shale as well, right? We're all in the shit together?

MATT: Shale's over here.

MARISHA: Oh, Shale's over there.

MATT: Flanking from the side.

MARISHA: You know what, I'm just going to stay there!

MATT: All right. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to run along the side of the pool, and up on his left side, closest to the entrance of the cave. Right there would be delicious.

MATT: There you go.

TRAVIS: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. A regular strike on the first.

MATT: You already have advantage on all the attacks because of Faerie Fire. So you don't need–

TRAVIS: Yeah, not reckless. Not great weapon.

MATT: Yeah. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Is that a 20?

ASHLEY: Oh, oh! That would be a natural 20!

SAM: Oh! That's not going to be good for him.

MATT: Barbarian crits, man.

TRAVIS: I keep rolling, yeah?

MATT: Well, do the damage for the critical, yeah.

TALIESIN: This and the next round are going to be really ugly.

MARISHA: Kill it. Fucking kill it!

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24. Okay.

TRAVIS: Is the roll and then, what? Double it or add another–?

MATT: The dice roll is? Well, you roll 1d12. What was that, the first d12 you rolled?

TRAVIS: That was a 15. Oh, the dice roll? 12.

MATT: 12. So make a– it was a 12?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Oh, shit! Okay, that's a 24. And then you add your modifier. And then roll two more d12s. So, that's 24 plus, is that seven?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Plus the two for the axe. Oh my god! That'll be at 33. Plus the necrotic– oh, fuck! And that's doubled too.

TRAVIS: So that's an 11 for the second d12.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Should we write these numbers down?

MATT: Yeah, we have to now. So it's 24 plus two for the axe, plus seven for the strength.

TRAVIS: Plus five for the necrotic–

MATT: Hold on, getting there. We're getting there. It's getting math crunchy here, guys. So 24 plus nine, so that's 33, plus– the necrotic?

TRAVIS: Five.

MATT: Times two, which is ten. That's 43, plus the two other d12s, which is an 11. So that's 54. Plus your last d12.

TRAVIS: It's a ten.

MATT: You did 64 points of damage with this one critical hit.

ASHLEY: He's a monstah!

TRAVIS, MARISHA and LAURA: Monstah!

MATT: All right. So that's your first attack.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

CHRIS: Dragon's like, hello!

MARISHA: Disco dragon!

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20. The first strike swings wide and slams deep into an already open wound left by a rogue earlier in the sky. This time, the axe sinks deep into its body, and Umbrasyl roars out in immense pain. You see spittle and blood both being jettisoned from its mouth under the sheer pain that it's feeling. You take the axe, and you push even deeper, and push even deeper and withdraw. As you do, the blade is entirely covered in deep purplish-black dragon blood. You swing for a second strike. This time it puts its claw out and catches the axe in the middle of the air. You manage to wrench it free from its grasp, but it turns its head toward you, angrily.

ASHLEY: Can I use War God's Blessing again?

MATT: That is Channel Divinity? I'll go ahead and double-check here real fast.

MARISHA: We also have Heroes' Feast up, by the way, if that makes any amount of difference.

MATT: It won't do anything. It helped you with the temporary hit points, it helped you with–

SAM, MARISHA and LIAM: Fear?

MATT: It helped you with the fear-resistance to begin with. That was a big one. Channel Divinity, War God's Blessing and you can Channel Divinity twice. So you can do it a second time, you can. Wait, didn't you use it– between rests, yeah. You could do it a second time if you want to.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MATT: All right. So with that, with a plus ten brings it to 30. So, as Umbrasyl grabs the axe, stopping it in mid-air, you just grin, reach forward with the axe, and push it into its actual claw. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: You nasty, boy! 27.

MATT: 27 points of damage. All right. And do you want to use your bonus action?

TRAVIS: I do.

MATT: Yes, you do.

TRAVIS: Let's do it great weapon master, just for kicks.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: 26 minus five is 21.

MATT: 21. As you push the blade into Umbrasyl's hand, (angry snarl) it rears back its head and snaps toward you. You duck out of the way, pull the blade back and go for a third strike. This time however, it actually rears its torso up, putting its claws in the air, and you (slicing) find air right beneath it. Does not strike true.

TRAVIS: Cool. Good beans.

MATT: Yeah. That finishes Grog's turn. At the end of Grog's turn, it's going to use its third legendary action to go ahead and make a– Actually, no, its going to hold onto that legendary action. All right, that brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Jesus, it's not dead yet?

MATT: Scanlan, because you took the tail attack earlier, I'll have you roll a concentration check for Stinking Cloud. You have advantage on it though, so add your constitution bonus.

SAM: 20.

MATT: Yeah, you're fine.

SAM: Great. I've got my Stinking Cloud, still. I would like to move the Stinking Cloud. Oh! No, I can't do that.

MATT: You can.

SAM: You can move a Stinking Cloud?

MATT: I think it moves from a short breeze, actually.

SAM: Eh, it's fine.

MATT: Older versions, I think you could.

SAM: I don't want the Stinking Cloud to move. All right, he's right on us, he's got a legendary action. This is not good. Okay, I will reintroduce him to Bigby's Hand, (singing) Bigby's Hand! And I'm going to use it as an– Ugh, so weak! Interposing Hand.

MATT: Bigby's Interposing Hand, all righty.

LAURA: What is that?

SAM: It will block him. It's a talk-to-the-hand move.

MATT: The idea is, you can use your bonus action to set it each turn to what you want it to do. So right now, you're having it as an Interposing Hand. So, yeah. It prevents it from moving–

SAM: Wait, just moving? It can still attack?

MATT: The Interposing Hand interposes between you and a creature you choose until you give it a different command. It stays between the two of you, providing you half-cover against the target. So it helps from ranged attacks.

SAM: Oh. But it won't block an attack. So in that case, I'll just attack with it.

MATT: Okay, so you're just going to go and Clenched Fist?

SAM: I'm going to try to finger it right in the hole that I came out of before.

MATT: Of course you are! Go ahead and make a melee spell attack.

SAM: He's the Bigby and the dike!

MATT: That would be over here

SAM: What do I roll? d20?

MATT: d20, add your spell attack modifier.

SAM: Oh! 27. Oh! With advantage? 27.

MATT: 27, that hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 force damage, as Bigby angrily jams the magical finger back into the wound.

ASHLEY: Rage fingering?

LIAM: This dragon is being violated in so many ways.

SAM: It's just ten. 4d8 plus what?

MATT: It's 4d8 force damage.

SAM: That's it, ten.

MATT: Ten points of force damage.

SAM: Yes.

LIAM: Not like this!

MATT: All right, Scanlan, are you going to move or stay where you are?

SAM: If I move, he'll kill me, so I won't. Instead, I will– where's Vax?

MATT: Vax is over here.

SAM: Way over there?!

LIAM: Playing medic with my sister.

LAURA: Hey!

SAM: Jesus. Who can I inspire? I guess I'll inspire good old Shale again. You don't need inspiration, you're fine! This is an old lady! I'll turn to Shale and say, I don't normally do this, but I find you so attractive! For an old lady!

CHRIS: Focus on the dragon!

SAM: I can't! With your eyes– eye? Eye so beautiful! So twinkling when it looks at me! I just want you to hold me in your arm tonight!

(laughter)

CHRIS: Have you ever had sex?

(laughter)

SAM: No!

TALIESIN: It was just hanging there!

SAM: Yes, I've had sex, Shale! I have a daughter.

MATT: He says this as a giant Bigby's Hand is just (impact sounds) at the side of a giant, black dragon. That brings us to the top of the initiative round. Percy, it's your turn. Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Okay. How close am I to this dragon?

MATT: You are about ten feet from it right now.

TALIESIN: I'm walking right the fuck up to it.

MATT: Okay, Percy. You walk right up to the dragon.

TALIESIN: I'm pulling out the sword. And I'm going to fucking town, screaming like a little girl the entire time.

MARISHA: Kill it! Advantage!

TALIESIN: With advantage.

MARISHA: All day! Advantage all day!

LAURA: Kill that fucking dragon.

TALIESIN: 26!

MATT: 26 hits.

TALIESIN: All right, first damage. 23 points of damage.

MATT: 23 points of damage, all right.

TALIESIN: For shot number one. Shot number two.

MARISHA: Big money, no whammies. That's good!

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Sorry, excitement.

TALIESIN: Ten, 16, 16 times two is 32. 39, that's 39 points of damage. Number three! Oh, it gets worse. I'm going to die. Okay, I can do better than that. No, he can't. 22.

MATT: 22 just hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's 18 points of slashing damage.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Action surge, motherfucker!

MATT: Go for it.

CHRIS: Going Ginsu on this dragon.

MATT: I know, seriously.

TALIESIN: It is not an awesome hit, it's just a hit. I'm really excited. 18 points of damage.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Shot number two.

SAM: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: That's a hit.

LAURA: Natural 20?

TALIESIN: Natural 20. This is to make up for all these fucking ones.

LAURA: Why doesn't Percy just always attack melee?

MARISHA: He's bad at it most of the time.

TALIESIN: 47 points of damage. Final attack.

SAM: Wait, what?

LIAM: How is this possible?

MARISHA: Because he's a fighter, he gets three attacks per round.

TALIESIN: Plus an action surge for a second attack set of three. So I'm basically going– Yeah.

MARISHA: It's like a John Wu film.

TALIESIN: It's just a fucking John Wu attack. Oh my god, it hit. Just barely, because it was a one, otherwise. And that final hit is– oh, that's good. 27 points of damage, and I'm done.

MATT: As you unload on Umbrasyl, the pent-up anger and frustration, you start slashing over and over again. You guys watch as the blade shines in the air in the presence of its naturally designed enemy. You see at the corners of his outfit little tufts of dark smoke beginning to appear. The scar of Orthax still shows when the fury builds within Percy. As each blow strikes, cutting away hunks and bits of dragon flesh and scale, Umbrasyl is heavily wounded and looking desperate. That ends your turn, I believe?

LAURA: Oh my god, he's still alive?

MATT: You guys gave it time to rest.

TALIESIN: Fuck it, bonus action, I'm putting on the mask and standing my ground. Fuck it.

MATT: Amazing what a dragon can do in two hours.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm done.

MATT: All right. Vex.

LAURA: Hi. Okay. I'm going to–

MATT: Actually, at the end of Percy's turn, he's going to use his third legendary action, knowing the source of the Faerie Fire and extremely frustrated by the fact that it has lent to a very difficult round, it turns towards the now water elemental quivering before it, and the tail comes down to smash towards your liquid form.

MARISHA: (burbling)

MATT: Speaking of natural 20s.

TALIESIN: It's okay.

MARISHA: Come on, bitch. Come on.

TALIESIN: You're fine.

MARISHA: Totally fine. I'm an elemental for a reason.

TALIESIN: You are totally fucking fine.

MATT: 32 points of bludgeoning damage.

MARISHA: Halved.

MATT: Halved, because of your elemental. Does water elemental have resistance to damage?

MARISHA: Yeah, it has damage resistance against acid, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing from non-magical weapons.

MATT: All right, so half that. So 32 made to 16. 16 points of bludgeoning damage. I need you to go ahead and roll a concentration check.

MARISHA: What did you say?

MATT: Roll a concentration check. So roll a d20 and add your constitution modifier.

TALIESIN: Even if it goes, it was worth it.

MARISHA: Not bad, not bad. Hang on, sorry. Just my straight modifier, it's not a save? Okay, 18!

MATT: You maintain concentration. You needed to beat the 16.

MARISHA: Whoa, daddy. All right.

MATT: Well, half the damage. No, it would've been ten, actually, because it's half the damage you receive.

MARISHA: Half the damage I receive, so yeah, I'm good. I'm golden.

MATT: All right, cool. So Vex, what are you doing?

LAURA: Oh, jeez. Who all is within five feet of it? Is everybody within five feet of it?

MATT: A lot of them are. Pretty much the whole party aside from Pike, you, and your brother.

LAURA: Then I'm just going to attack it twice.

TALIESIN: With advantage.

SAM: Oi, Matt. My Bigby's is concentration, so that cloud's gone, by the way.

MATT: Correct, thank you.

LAURA: 19 plus 12 hits.

SAM: Did you shoot it in the back?

MATT: Yes, it does. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Can I Hunter's Mark him?

MATT: As a bonus action?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Good memory on that one.

LAURA: 19 on the first hit.

MATT: 19 damage? All right.

LAURA: Then the second one hits as well, 17 plus 12.

MATT: Yep. Go ahead and roll damage for the second hit.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. All right. So, ending your turn, comes to the top of the round. Umbrasyl, now gripping into the stone, “I will not fall!” Suddenly, darkness begins to sweep into the area. In this area, a 15-foot radius all completely around Umbrasyl, all of you in this area, your vision goes dark.

LIAM: Cancels out Faerie Fire and the golden butt?

MATT: Cancels out Faerie Fire. This is magical darkness.

SAM: It's not a spell, right?

LIAM: For those of us on the outside, do we see a bubble of darkness where Key and the others–

SAM: A spell, Matt?

MATT: No, this is an effect of the lair. Actually, Faerie Fire would still affect it if you attacked it, per se, but it doesn't reveal its location currently within the darkness. However, it is technically larger than the darkness. Regardless, all of you guys that are in there, it would negate the advantage you would have from Faerie Fire. It would just be a central attack.

MARISHA: So it wouldn't give us disadvantage, it would just be straight rolls?

MATT: A little bit of it's piercing through, because it is magic on magic. However, the rest of you see most of the party disappear into a giant sphere of magical darkness that fills the space.

LAURA: So we on the outside, we can't use Faerie Fire? It's just a bubble of dark? Or do we see Umbrasyl peeking out?

LIAM: He said he's bigger than the dark, so we see his head coming out.

MATT: You see the wings poking out the sides of it. You still see where he would be. Okay, so with that, Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and take a risk. He's going to lift his wings and head upward to move into an advantageous position.

SAM: No, it's not!

MARISHA: Come on. Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: I'm going to say, you leave when Burt Reynolds says you can fucking leave! And I will Bigby's Hand, and I will bring him back down, because I get a spell on his retreat.

TALIESIN: I love watching him look at the phone.

MARISHA: Consult the helix.

MATT: Unfortunately, you have to be grasping it or grappling it to attempt to–

SAM: No, I get a full spell action. It's my lore feature. I get to cast a brand new fucking spell when he lifts off.

MATT: Which one?

SAM: College of Lore. If he retreats, I get to cast a spell. This is the exact same thing that happened last time.

MATT: Trying to remember how this works. College of Lore. I don't know if it is. Because what you do is you grapple–

SAM: Oh, no, it's a War Caster feature.

MATT: Oh, War Caster! Thank you, that clarifies it. I was like, I don't see this in the College of Lore! You're confusing me! So as a War Caster, when a hostile creature's movement provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can use your reaction to cast a spell at the creature rather than making an opportunity attack. So yeah, if you wanted to go ahead and attempt to grapple–

SAM: I will grapple him and pull him back down.

MATT: You can totally attempt that. Bigby, go ahead and make a strength athletics check to beat a dragon's strength. Bigby is just slightly under the strength of the dragon, so let's see. It's a roll-off.

SAM: It's a roll-off! Oh my god. This is a critical roll. That's a two.

MATT: It was a 19 on my end. Natural 19. As Bigby's Hand reaches forward, the angry, wounded, frustrated, furious Umbrasyl just kicks the hand away, pulling up.

TALIESIN: Do we get an attack of opportunity?

MATT: Attack of opportunity from you, you, you, and you.

MARISHA: Down, bitch, down!

ASHLEY: And the Spiritual Weapon, right? And the Spiritual Weapon?

MATT: No, it does not get attacks of opportunity.

MARISHA: Without advantage, even though he's retreating?

MATT: Without advantage, because of the magical darkness that has surrounded you guys.

MARISHA: Even though he's retreating in Faerie Fire? That doesn't double it?

MATT: The darkness would give you disadvantage, the Faerie Fire negates that. I'm letting you do this.

MARISHA: Okay. Letting you do this! Be thankful of what you have! 22 exactly.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: 20.

CHRIS: My staff bounces right off.

MATT: Okay. Grog?

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: All right, so Grog and Keyleth both get a hit in. Go ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: Shit. Balls. Low. Shit. Eight damage from the elemental.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20, all right.

TRAVIS: 25. Plus the necrotic.

MATT: Good to know.

MARISHA: And we decided I don't get my fire hands when I'm a water elemental?

MATT: Because that's bullshit.

MARISHA: Yeah, all right.

TALIESIN: That would just be steam.

MATT: So as you swing out, you arc, and the axe strikes across the back of Umbrasyl's hide. You slam with your water elemental form. The flight is staggered, and barely lands on his feet. Umbrasyl, “I will take you all down!” Unleashes.

MARISHA: Here it comes.

MATT: I need a dexterity saving throw from Shale, Percy, Keyleth, and Scanlan.

LAURA: Oh, it's that whole table!

SAM: Seven!

CHRIS: 24.

MARISHA: 12.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: All right. Shale actually succeeded on that one. DC 23.

MARISHA: DC 23!

MATT: So you take half damage on that one. That's going to be, doing the dice rolls here. So that's 62 points of acid damage down to 31 to Shale, and 31 to you because you're resistant. So 62 points of acid damage to both of you guys.

SAM: My armor, does that do anything?

MATT: Your armor takes it by half, so you would take 31.

TALIESIN: 62? Okay.

CHRIS: Cursed lizard, we're going to give all your treasure to the poor!

MATT: And with that, it takes the rest of its action to move further back at its 80 foot flight, and it's going to end up right about there.

SAM: It's too big to fit in its own house.

MATT: I know! Leaving the Spiritual Weapon there. All right, that's going to end its turn. That now brings it to Vax.

LIAM: The twins still have advantage because it's got the Faerie Fire on it, right? You said everyone in it?

MATT: Oh, you need to make a concentration check, by the way, from the damage you just took.

MARISHA: Did he get out of the darkness?

MATT: He did.

MARISHA: Ooh, ouch, not good at all. What am I making, just a constitution check?

MATT: Add your constitution modifier.

MARISHA: I don't think it's going to be enough. Eight.

MATT: The Faerie Fire fades as the acid consumes you, no longer affected by it.

MARISHA: Shit.

MATT: All right. Vax, it's your turn. To answer your question, no.

LIAM: Nobody's near it anymore, right?

MATT: Nope.

LIAM: Okay. I would like to scrabble up behind it, as close to its treasure pile as I can get.

MATT: Okay, that would be about there.

LIAM: And I'm going to throw. Shit. No, cancel that. I'd like to run up its tail.

MATT: Okay. You go rushing, clambering onto the back of its tail. It swoops around and sees you doing so, but you're already quick and on it. What are you going to do?

LIAM: I'm going to hold my action until somebody gets up on this motherfucker, and as soon as somebody gets close and catches his attention I'm going to stab into it.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. All right, that takes the end of Vax's turn. Shale, you're up.

CHRIS: I stride up to the dragon and smack it on the nose.

TRAVIS: Atta girl, Shale!

MATT: Speed of 20 feet, you said?

CHRIS: Yeah.

MATT: You can't quite get to it, unfortunately. That's about as far as you can move this turn. You can dash if you want to, but even so, you still can't quite get to it.

CHRIS: All right then. I will use all my action to get as close to it as I can.

MATT: Okay, there we go. All right! Ending Shale's turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. I didn't realize I was up so quickly. All right.

CHRIS: Although, actually, I have action surge.

MATT: You do, actually.

CHRIS: So I will then whack him on the nose.

MATT: That's true.

MARISHA: Fuck yes.

CHRIS: All right, so that's going to be–

TALIESIN: I have 13 hit points.

SAM: 13? I thought that said 93.

TALIESIN: I count up.

CHRIS: 22.

MATT: 22, that just barely hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

CHRIS: So I whack it for nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage, got it.

LIAM: I'm above it. Do I get advantage for that?

MATT: Technically, because you are behind, you are flanking it, so as we'll use the flanking rules for this, you do have advantage on the attack.

LIAM: Okay, so, good. 29.

MATT: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with sneak attack.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24, all righty.

LIAM: And is the bonus action gone because of holding the action?

MATT: Correct, yeah, you just get the one action to hold.

LIAM: Add one point to that. It was the keen dagger.

MATT: So as part of your action surge, you get two more attacks.

LIAM: I didn't add the damage! Add eight to that. Not one, add eight to that. Sorry.

SAM: Add seven more. Then add three.

CHRIS: Nope, and nope.

SAM: You have inspiration!

CHRIS: I used it already.

SAM: Goddamn it!

CHRIS: But thank you, it was very helpful.

SAM: You're useless!

CHRIS: A fickle lover.

MATT: The one hit, it snorts in reaction to it. As it pulls back, you swing twice more, pretty sure the head was in the same place it was going to be, but unfortunately, meet air. Curse your sight!

CHRIS: He had a bit of an itch on his back, that's what it was.

MATT: Caught the attention. All right, that brings us to Pike. What are you doing?

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Prayer of Healing over to everybody over there. So, Keyleth, Percy, Scanlan, Shale.

MARISHA: Awesome. I'm into this.

CHRIS: I'm sort of right under the dragon. I'm actually quite far.

ASHLEY: Yeah, she's gone. Who's that down there? That's you, Percy, right?

TALIESIN: Trinket.

MATT: What level is Prayer of Healing?

ASHLEY: I'm going to do it at fifth level. It's a second level, but I'm going to do it at fifth level.

MATT: Within 30 feet of you, so five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30.

SAM: You can heal my hand.

LIAM: You could also run closer and do it.

ASHLEY: Okay. Yeah, I'll run closer. And I'll run around, not into the pool of acid death.

MATT: That's as close as you can get right now.

SAM: Is that close?

LIAM: It's close enough for Scanlan.

MATT: It's enough for Scanlan and Keyleth.

SAM: Don't do it.

MARISHA: Percy needs it.

ASHLEY: Percy needs it?

MATT: Percy's not in range.

ASHLEY: Fuck. Can I go the other way around?

SAM: You can go through the acid.

TALIESIN: No.

TRAVIS: It was only 12 points of damage.

ASHLEY: I don't have a lot left. All right, then.

TALIESIN: It's okay.

LIAM: Do what you can.

ASHLEY: Okay. Fuck. Can I stay where I was at, then?

MATT: You can. Stay right there.

ASHLEY: Okay. Sorry, I'm going to not do that. I'm going to Guiding Bolt then.

MATT: Okay. You can just barely make out the position of where Umbrasyl is. You can go ahead and make the attack, but it's going to get cover bonus to the range.

ASHLEY: Can I peek out? Can I move out?

MATT: You can move here if you want to, and it'll help a little bit. It'll only give it a minor bonus. Go ahead and make your attack.

ASHLEY: What's that?

MATT: Go ahead and make your spell attack. Is this basic level Guiding Bolt?

ASHLEY: Basic level Guiding Bolt.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Nope. Doesn't hit.

MATT: You try and reach around and as it's moving its wings about, you manage to strike the stone just blocking half of its form. It splashes with energy and dissipates with no effect, unfortunately.

ASHLEY: All right. Can I tuck back in?

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to move the Spiritual Weapon with my bonus attack, or can I not do that?

MATT: You can do that, yeah. 20 feet? To there.

ASHLEY: Okay. That's it. That's what I can do.

MATT: Is that as far as you can move it? Spiritual Weapon can move, I believe it's 20 feet. Yeah, that's as far as you can get it.

ASHLEY: No, 60 feet!

MATT: The range of the spell is 60 feet, but as a bonus action, you can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack.

ASHLEY: Oh.

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: I'm up? No shit. Wow. Okay. It's really far away though now, yeah?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Way more than 30 feet, right?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: What is he? How far away is he from me?

MATT: You're not sure.

LIAM: He's about 40 or 50 feet or something.

MARISHA: Yeah. You're holding your action for someone to get up close.

LAURA: He already did it.

MARISHA: Oh, you already did it. Yeah, I guess I'm going to dash and see if I can get to him.

MATT: Okay, what's your movement as a water elemental?

MARISHA: 30 feet.

MATT: 30 feet. 60, you're so close. Fucking dragon wings. There you go, you're so close. We'll say you're there, that's fine. That ends your turn, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I guess so.

MATT: All right. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to stride over to Bigby's Hand, and can I take out a level– It's not level two, what do you call it? Not superior, but the middle one.

SAM: Moderate?

TRAVIS: Can I take a moderate healing potion?

MATT: There's healing and then greater healing, so I imagine it would probably be greater healing.

TRAVIS: Can I take the greater healing potion and chuck it to Percy?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Just a toss while standing at Bigby's Hand?

MATT: Sure. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw to catch the tossed potion at that distance.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: You don't even look.

TRAVIS: And I will hold my attack.

MATT: You can keep moving if you want.

TRAVIS: I want to stay right by Bigby's Hand. I'll hold my attack until Bigby's Hand twitches.

MATT: All right. Finishing Grog's turn, Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I will inspire Grog with a little ditty that I like to call, Who Let the Grogs Out?

ALL: Who? Who who who who?

SAM: Who let the Grogs out?

ALL: Who? Who who who who?

MATT: I'm conflicted in giving that inspiration. Take it, it's fine.

SAM: I can try a different one, if you'd like.

MATT: No, it's perfect.

SAM: And I will pick him up, with his blessing.

TRAVIS: Please.

SAM: And throw him at the dragon.

MATT: Throw?

SAM: Or, you know, send him.

MATT: Okay, so Bigby's Hand will move with you 60 feet.

SAM: You want to go up to his head?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: All right, yeah. He's going up top.

MATT: Okay. We'll go ahead and use some of the platforms today.

LAURA: Yeah! Cut his horns off!

LIAM: Don't land on me.

ASHLEY: Kill him!

LAURA: Cut his wings off!

ASHLEY: Tear his head off!

LAURA: Jump off those head things!

TALIESIN: We have done a lot of damage to this thing.

MATT: Problem with leaving it to heal, man.

SAM: He's only got 400 hit points left.

LAURA: He's looking rough.

MATT: Should be more like there, we'll say.

SAM: Release the hounds.

TRAVIS: Can I make two reckless attacks?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: Reckless?

TRAVIS: Yes, reckless. I'll use the inspiration die. That's a ten, so that's a 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

SAM: Yeah! That helped.

TRAVIS: 23.

LAURA: Plus necrotic.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: 26, got it. All right, second attack.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 24.

LAURA: Plus necrotic.

TRAVIS: Thank you. 29. I'm not used to that.

MATT: All right. As Bigby's Hand lifts you up, you reach out and swing with the axe, one hit, a second hit, both streaking across the face, the second one actually cutting through one of the eyes. The eye bursts against the blade of bloodaxe, and you can see now the fluids and material that once were contained within are now spilling down the side of Umbrasyl's face.

TRAVIS: Ain't you pretty?

MATT: All right, Scanlan.

SAM: What, me?

MATT: That was your bonus action.

SAM: Oh! Well, okay. I didn't know that. I will try something else then. I will send– shit. I will send my Lightning Bolt. Can I see any part of him that's not inhabited by one of my allies?

MATT: I'd say there's an arc you could probably hit, yeah.

SAM: Right in the heart?

MATT: Sure. The heart region of the dragon.

SAM: I'm going to shoot him right through the heart with lightning.

MATT: All right. That is a dexterity 21 save, so I'm pretty sure it's halved.

SAM: Yeah, that saves.

MATT: Go ahead and roll 8d6, half damage.

LIAM: Shot through the heart!

SAM: I don't know that song, I don't know what that is. I don't know that song. 24, so just 12.

MATT: 12 points of lightning damage. All right. The bolt of lightning bursts through the body. All righty. That comes to the top of the round. At the end of Scanlan's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to strike down, with the tail, onto Vax behind, as you are already in that vicinity.

LIAM: Dex save?

MATT: No, this is instead going to be a 26 to hit.

LIAM: Yeah, that– oh, displacer cloak. Did you do that at disadvantage?

MATT: That is instead a 24 to hit.

LIAM: That does hit. I'll use Uncanny Dodge, though.

MATT: All right. So what would be 18 damage, you take nine instead from the tail. Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take three shots from where I'm at. First, I'm going to use my bonus action to chug down that potion I just got. What's the superior worth?

SAM: Greater.

MATT: It's a greater, yes. 4d4 plus four.

TALIESIN: 4d4 plus four. Where are my d4s at? I'll just do this four times. 13 points up, so that's a little bit better. All right, I'm going to take shot number one. I'm going to do a called shot to the face. I'm going to hit his other eye. Come on. Natural 20.

SAM: I feel like we need to retire the dice.

TALIESIN: Fuck no! No, I love this die.

MARISHA: You witnessed it!

CHRIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: You're a third party, it's good.

TRAVIS: Have you and Wheaton ever touched?

TALIESIN: Yeah, and I had a really bad day afterward. Let me tell you. That didn't turn out too well. That's just 16 points of damage, and I don't think I get anything bonus for this, he has to make a constitution saving throw.

CHRIS: Eyeball saving throw.

TALIESIN: Or he's going to have disadvantage on all of his attacks for the next turn.

MATT: Okay, that is nine plus 14, 23.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, he's fine.

MATT: Dragons.

TALIESIN: I know. It was worth a shot. I'm going to take another shot. Fuck it, I'm just going to go for a sharpshooter, to try and do a little bit more damage to this, and I'm going to burn another grit and get advantage on it.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So advantage sharpshooter. And that's a good thing, because that was terrible. And that was also terrible. So I miss.

MATT: All right, second shot. The first one (boom) slams and blasts near the ocular socket of Umbrasyl, shattering the bone, but not actually damaging the eye. The second shot manages to go through the wing, but unfortunately, the area was already damaged, and it's minimal in the effect on the dragon. Third strike?

TALIESIN: Yeah, third strike. Here we go. Actually, you know what, I'm going to go for advantage. I'm going to go for sharpshooter advantage one more time, just for shits and giggles. Jesus. Do I call it?

MATT: It fell to the table.

TALIESIN: So, yeah, I miss.

MATT: Two other shots, unfortunately, (bang).

TALIESIN: I'm going to hide. I'm going to pull top right, and go up. I'm going up and I'm getting the fuck back there, as far back as I can get.

MATT: Okay. End of Percy's turn, going to use another legendary action to slam with the tail once again towards you, Vax. This is going to be–

LIAM: This is in the same round, so there's no more disadvantage.

MATT: Correct. 25?

LIAM: Sure. And do I blow Uncanny Dodge now?

MATT: You only get one reaction, so yeah. That's going to be 22 points of bludgeoning damage. Whack! The tail comes down and slams into you, putting you face-first into the stone. You can feel the blood run from your nose from the impact as the tail picks back up again. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to attack him a couple times. How about that? No advantage anymore, though, huh?

MARISHA: No, it failed.

LAURA: 18 on the first one doesn't hit.

MATT: Arrow just splinters across the dragon's hide.

LAURA: That first one was way better, I should've kept it!

MATT: What was the second one?

LAURA: The second one was 16.

MATT: 16, the second arrow strikes the side of Umbrasyl's face. Unfortunately, once again, the wood shaft streaks across, broken and destroyed by the impact. That ends your turn.

LAURA: No, I still have a bonus action, so I'm going to hide with my bonus action.

MATT: Okay, you can do that, roll stealth. Did you add sneak attack? Oh, no, because nothing hit. Sorry.

LAURA: Really?

MATT: Sorry, I was trying to be mindful.

LAURA: Did you really just do that?

MATT: Trying to help. Failing miserably, but trying.

LAURA: Do I still have Pass Without Trace?

MATT: No. Hunter's Mark got rid of that.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: Okay, good to know. Top of the round. Magical darkness fills this entire sphere once more, encapsulating Grog, Vax, and everybody else in the area of the dragon. Vision is taken. You are all considered blind and have disadvantage on any attack rolls.

LAURA: Who all?

MATT: Dragon does not seem to be–

LIAM: And is it we're blinded, or we're blind where we are?

MATT: Blind where you are.

TRAVIS: Dragon does not seem to be–?

MATT: Affected by it.

LAURA: I'm not affected by that, though, because I'm outside of the bubble?

MATT: Correct, yes. Actually, let me see something.

TRAVIS: That dumb grin.

MATT: With a five. Yep.

MARISHA: Breath recharged.

MATT: Umbrasyl is going to turn up towards you, Grog. The head peeks out of the darkness for a second, right before it fills your space, and it just says, “I will finish this.” You hear a familiar sound of gurgling, and then (liquid spray) out another time. This is going to go for everything in that vicinity. That's going to be Keyleth, Shale, Grog, Trinket, and Percy.

TALIESIN: Did I not get cover?

MATT: You couldn't move that far, unfortunately. That's as far as you could go with your movement.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: So I need a dexterity saving throw from all of you guys.

MARISHA: Fuck.

TALIESIN: Blowing my last reroll. That's better.

MARISHA: It's like a 23 save, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Fuck no. I mean, I rolled good, but–

MARISHA: But it doesn't matter.

TRAVIS: 18.

CHRIS: Ten.

MARISHA: Six.

TALIESIN: That's 20.

MATT: And Trinket? Oh.

SAM: I guess I should do a Cutting Words, just to help a little bit.

MATT: What's the range on Cutting Words, unfortunately?

SAM: Probably 60, 30? Is he further than that? Damn it.

MATT: Unfortunately. The distance of the bard. Just to make sure. 60 feet, yeah. So that's 66 points of acid damage to Grog, Shale, halved to you, and 66 to Percy.

LAURA: Trinket's unconscious.

MATT: Trinket is unconscious and dissolving.

TALIESIN: I'm unconscious.

MATT: Percy is unconscious and dissolving. Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm good.

MATT: You're good. Hit points.

TRAVIS: I have a question. Because he attacked me, do I get my retaliation attack on him?

MATT: Yes, you do.

MARISHA: Kill him, motherfucker! Kill him!

MATT: Shale, what are you at?

CHRIS: This will depend on this roll. I've got Stone's Endurance, so I'm going to try to use my reaction to reduce the damage, and I reduce it by enough to keep me up.

MATT: Fantastic! She's got grit! She's got perseverance!

SAM: So sexy!

CHRIS: I'm at two hit points.

MATT: All right, Grog, go for it. Not with advantage.

TRAVIS: It's not reckless?

MATT: The reckless is for your actual attack round.

TRAVIS: The first one was an 18.

MATT: I'm pretty sure it is. Let me double check. Just so the internet doesn't yell at me. It's going to yell at me anyway, it always yells at me.

TALIESIN: I believe in you.

TRAVIS: It's a 27, so.

MARISHA: This fucker's got to be close to death, right?

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: During this turn, not round, so yeah.

TRAVIS: That was a 27 for the first one.

MATT: 27 was the hit? That hits. Roll damage.

TRAVIS: 18.

LAURA: Plus necrotic.

TRAVIS: Thank you. 22.

MATT: 22. How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Did the fucking necrotic do it?

(screaming)

SAM: Oh, god.

MATT: So. Held aloft by Bigby's Hand, acid sprayed in your face, two of your friends on the ground, unconscious and dissolving, in the center of the dragon's lair, Grog Strongjaw, how do you want to do this?

TRAVIS: I rear back with the bloodaxe and I swing for the hinge right where his upper and lower jaw meet, and I'd like to cleave up under his skull into his brain.

MATT: As you lunge forward, the darkness fills you, but the feral instinct that you've grown up with is enough to know the source of that pain, the source of that acid, is also the source of victory. And as you swing wide, the jaw, still extended from the blast of acid, you push through it, as it's spraying into you, and the sheer force of your blade hits the edge of the jaw, and you push, and you hear from the back of the throat, as the acid is projected, the gurgle of horrible, shrieking pain. (groan) The stream stops as the blade goes towards the base of the skull, pushing forward and upward. You divide the actual mouth of Umbrasyl like that. The darkness (whoosh) flicks out, as you guys watch Grog descending, putting your foot now onto the front of the dragon's neck, you stand up, getting hold onto where the wound is there, still living, the one working eye flitting about wildly, you reach up and grab the edge of the nose, bring the axe up with the other hand, and slam again, and again, and as you do, the eye rolls back. The whole body begins to fall limp as it crumples backward. Vax, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, I am very unconscious.

ASHLEY: You'll be okay. I've got you.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: 25. Okay, you dodge out of the way as the dragon plummets to the ground. (heavy impact) What was Trinket's maximum hit points?

LAURA: It was 60.

MATT: Let me check something here.

LAURA: But he was at 53 when he got hit.

MATT: The remaining damage. Yeah, you're fine.

TRAVIS: Night saved.

MATT: Umbrasyl's body hits the ground, the two arms reach up, and the body still continues to pull itself backwards. You pull out of the way. The head lolls around, the jaw now grossly, cartoonishly open, giving out these horrible choking sounds, as the blood and bile and acid all mingle. It tries to talk. The bubbles continue coming forward before it stumbles, the arms sprawled out, its head falls limp to the side as the eye twitches and then falls still.

ASHLEY: I run over to Percy.

LAURA: I run over to Trinket.

MARISHA: I drop my water elemental form.

ASHLEY: I touch Percy and I cast Heal on him.

MARISHA: Nice.

LAURA: I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket.

MATT: As you stand there, Shale, watching the dragon fall as Grog Strongjaw, the once runt of the Herd of Storms, slams the blade over and over again in the dragon's head, a little part of you is a little jealous, and another part proud, and a little sad that this was not the time for you to lose your life in battle against a mighty dragon.

ASHLEY: Oh, Shale.

LIAM: Can you believe it?

SAM: Shale jumps into acid.

LIAM: Just walks in.

CHRIS: Dissolves.

MATT: (sizzle) I can make that joke in two weeks! As you go and bring Trinket around for a second, using the last bit of the magic that's been afforded to you as a ranger, Trinket comes to. (bear grunt) A lot of the fur has been singed off, and spotted flesh with acid burn, but is conscious and alive, and weak, Trinket leans forward as you're cradling his head and licks the side of your face and tucks his nose into the side of your shoulder.

LAURA: You were so brave in here!

MATT: (bear grunt) You go ahead and help Percy get off the ground. You come to consciousness again and you see Pike's hand touching yours as she lifts you. Suddenly, a surge of invigoration hits your body, and you find yourself feeling a lot better than you did a few moments ago.

TALIESIN: Yeah, what am I at?

ASHLEY: 70 hit points.

LAURA: That's major.

MATT: Heal, man. Clerics don't fuck around.

ASHLEY: I saved it just in case.

LAURA and MARISHA: Holy shit, Grog!

ASHLEY: Grog! I run over to Grog and I jump up on his leg, I'm going to sit on his foot.

TRAVIS: Monstah!

ASHLEY: Yeah, monstah!

CHRIS: I will remove my dragon tooth necklace and pass it off to Grog.

TRAVIS: No, Shale.

CHRIS: You must take this. You've got many more battles left in you. This is going to serve you better than it ever served me. And just so you know, I don't know what the Herd would do, but if you ever go into battle again against other dragons, you know who to call. I'll be ready.

TRAVIS: Yeah. The wielder of the magic stick of nose-whappiness. I will wear this with honor.

CHRIS: All right. So whenever you, by the way, whenever you spend hit dice to regain hit points, you double the number of hit points restored.

TRAVIS: With the necklace?

CHRIS: Yes.

TRAVIS: Oh, snap!

ASHLEY: You what?

CHRIS: Double your hit points you restore.

TRAVIS: I thought it was bullshit, but it's not! Dope!

LIAM: You finally have some hit points.

LAURA: You know, if you seek another dragon to kill, you might meet us in Whitestone. We're forming an army there.

CHRIS: I just might.

MARISHA: Keyleth drops elemental form and goes over to Vax and grabs him by the face.

LIAM: You'd have to lean over for that.

SAM: He's a little boy!

LAURA: It's like kissing a child.

CHRIS: He's like a little voodoo doll of Vax.

LIAM: I'm not pygmied or anything, I'm like a doll.

LAURA: Keep it going, Keyleth. Just mug down with him.

LIAM: Maybe this should wait till later?

MARISHA: I tap him on the face, and say: So glad you're not dead. And I walk away.

LIAM: I'm going to shake that off, and then I'm going to do a once around the entire chamber and look around for any traps I can find, especially around that pile up top, but also, I don't know that they'll be here, but see if there's anything like what we saw in Krieg's cave with the crystals in the wall. Little peeky stones.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Can I look for those, too, since dragons?

LIAM: 22.

LAURA: Oh, he probably doesn't need my help. I get advantage on all dragon things.

MATT: You do.

LAURA: It doesn't matter. I rolled shit, twice. 12.

MATT: 12, okay. You guys spend the better part of the next 15 or so minutes glancing around and trying to find any sign of these strange obsidian spheres that were previously in the lair of Krieg, or Brimscythe. After coasting through the crates and barrels, gold piles, the various artifacts and trinkets and things that are strewn about this back corner, no sign of anything like that.

LIAM: What about weaponry in that pile of shit?

LAURA: What about all the stuff in that pile of shit?

TRAVIS: You want to rage loot?

MATT: There's a lot of things in there.

LIAM: I was first on the pile. Are there any weapons in there?

MATT: There are weapons. There are two glaives, polearm glaives. There appear to be a number of pieces of ornamental armor, very beautiful, made of gold and platinum, that were either used for ceremonial reasons or just adorning some sort of popular hall.

MARISHA: Keyleth walks over and pulls out her Hunk of Quall.

SAM: Yeah, Quall it up.

MARISHA: I'm going to Quall it up all over top of the gold, see if anything lights up with my Wi-Fi detector. Since that's what I feel like it is.

MATT: Strangely enough, no. Nothing seems to glow in the vicinity of the Hunk of Quall.

LIAM: And no other blades?

MATT: There are two glaives. Pulling the list up here. Going through the whole hoard, because it is 11:20, we may pick up the actual looting element at the beginning of next session. We'll be here for a while if you want to do that.

LAURA: I like the sound of that.

MARISHA: We have to go back and get Fassbender.

LAURA: Yeah, we're totally going to go back. We're going to return a lot of this gold to Whiterun. Westruun. All the towns.

SAM: Well, all the gold that we can definitely prove came from Westruun, we'll bring back.

LAURA: I agree.

SAM: With Westruun markings.

LAURA: All the other gold that's just sitting around, I mean, we should probably just take to help the battles.

TRAVIS: Plus it would be nice to give Shale some gold to take back to the Herd.

SAM: Who?

TRAVIS: Shale.

SAM: The Herd? I thought the Herd's– Okay.

TRAVIS: There was a great remnant. The Herd will live again, and with Shale's wisdom.

MARISHA: There were still a few members of the Herd still alive. A good half dozen.

TRAVIS: Zanror's baby mama is still preggo.

MARISHA: Yeah, exactly.

LIAM: It's also very lean times in Westruun. Most of this gold should go back to Westruun.

LAURA: Most of it.

MARISHA: Did we contribute any of our own gold into this pile?

LIAM: That's back in Westruun.

CHRIS: I can return with the remnants of the Herd and gather up whatever you don't take.

LAURA: And bring it back to Westruun.

SAM: We'll divvy it up later.

MARISHA: Let's divvy it up.

LIAM: If we take most of the gold that came from Westruun, we're a big pack of assholes.

LAURA: I said we weren't going to! We're going to take it back to Westruun.

SAM: You're a tiny pack of assholes right now.

MARISHA: Is he still tiny? He's still tiny.

LAURA: Three hours.

LIAM: Probably another two hours.

LAURA: It's only been an hour? No.

MATT: You have, probably another 20, 30 minutes or so before it fades.

MARISHA: We need Fassbender.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, you're going to butcher this dragon, right?

MARISHA: Yes. 100 percent. I start going to town on it.

LAURA: Because this is going to be worth a lot of fucking money.

MARISHA: Yeah. Percy, do you have any extra vials? Empty vials for blood?

LAURA: We should get some of the blood and put it in the Bag of Colding.

MARISHA: Hey, Percy! So glad you're alive and not burning in acid. Do you have any extra vials?

TALIESIN: Do I?

MATT: Checking in your various pieces of equipment you have on you, as opposed to what you have stored elsewhere, you had a few vials. They are a little jangly when you reach for them, and you realize they've been crushed.

TALIESIN: We have some empty potion bottles.

LIAM: I hand mine over from the one I gave Vex.

TALIESIN: The one I used as well.

MATT: Go ahead and make a nature check.

MARISHA: I'll take that 16 for a 27. Nature check, yeah? 27.

MATT: All right. So as you guys are gathering the elements of this dragon's hoard, gathering the equipment, the art pieces, the relics, all things that were part of this– and it is, especially since you know, as far as dragon hoards go, especially for an ancient dragon, it isn't huge. And with the recent moving in, you get the idea that this dragon's true hoard probably exists elsewhere. This was either a temporary lair, or was intended to be the new lair, and the process of transitioning hadn't quite begun. Most of the gold here seems to have been what was given to Umbrasyl by the Herd once they had taken over Westruun.

LIAM: Maybe he has to give it to Thordak in a dragon pyramid scheme.

LAURA: We don't find any of those glyphs like there were in–

TALIESIN: We already looked for those.

LAURA: Not the circles, I meant the transportation glyph that we beamed into his–

MATT: That you saw in Krieg's lair? No. You do know, from having one made by Allura within your keep before, that they take quite some time to ingrain. Dragon's only really had over a week or so. So, gathering up the materials, the remnants of that hoard, you guys descend down the mountain if you wish, or is there anything else you wish to accomplish within the actual lair?

MARISHA: I want to harvest some scales, some blood, and some teeth.

MATT: Right, based on the roll you made. So we have two empty vials that you managed to acquire.

MARISHA: Plus he had three in his Bag of Holding.

LIAM: Can I help her out?

MATT: Yeah. It's difficult because, with the nature of Umbrasyl's death, as well as being a creature that is naturally caustic and acidic in a large portion of its body, there was a mixing of a lot of the blood that has caused it to become impure while vialing it, so you get three vials of the blood that are still pure and viable. Everything else seems to dissolve through the glass upon contact.

LAURA: I can put it in the Bag of Colding, and then it'll keep it.

TALIESIN: I can assist with any of the cutting, because I've got the fuck-all sword.

MARISHA: I hand the three vials of blood to Vex to put in the Bag of Colding.

MATT: Many dragon's teeth were sundered in the ravaging of Umbrasyl at Grog's furious storm of axe blade strikes. However, you do manage to harvest from the body, unscathed, 14 ancient black dragon teeth.

MARISHA: We should make some sweet necklaces. Any scales?

MATT: Quite a lot of scales here, yes. It's going to take you a long time to harvest what you can off this body. A lot of the areas have been damaged from the various wounds and such. How much time do you want to spend to harvest scales?

LIAM: Do you think we should just camp here for the night?

TALIESIN: We could just camp here for the night.

LAURA: As long as the other dragons don't realize that we've just done this. Would I know if they would know?

MATT: You have no idea.

LAURA: I don't know if it's actually safe to just hang out in this dragon's lair.

TALIESIN: You know what we can do, is we can make the magic mansion in that cave off to the side, in the very back of it.

LAURA: That's a wonderful idea.

ASHLEY: And that magic trap, we didn't set it off.

TALIESIN: We haven't sprung the magic trap, either, so that's just none the wiser.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: All right. I'll spend as much time then, I'll stay up as long as I can throughout the night. If I hear any disturbances I'll come back to the mansion.

TALIESIN: I'll help.

CHRIS: Once we get to the mansion, Shale will bid the group farewell and head down to Westruun to let the rest of the Herd know what's happened, about the great triumph of the bearded king.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: As you come down and–

CHRIS: I'm killed by an owlbear.

MATT: Ravaged and eaten horribly in the Bramblewood, never to be seen again!

CHRIS: Nobody hears the tale of the bearded king!

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch!

TALIESIN: Forever, the Herd will just say, Grog, that asshole.

MARISHA: Such a dick.

MATT: No, you come down and as you speak with the remnants of the Herd of Storms, many of which, a number of them did survive the battle, though scarred horribly, and many did lose their life in the battle with Umbrasyl. Zanror, Worra, recovering all right. However, the number's now thinned down to a simple 12 members of the Herd. As you speak with Zanror, he looks to you and says, “Shale. You live.”

CHRIS: Obviously.

MATT: “Have you word of the mountain? The dragon?”

CHRIS: I toss one of its teeth at him. He will trouble us no more. He is a bygone.

MATT: “Good. Good.” He takes the tooth and gives it to Worra. “Well.”

CHRIS: It's the work of those adventurers.

MATT: “Vox Machina, they call themselves.”

CHRIS: They are truly great.

MATT: “Good. We need greatness in this world. We–”

CHRIS: Don't be so glum, you old fool.

MATT: He grins to himself.

CHRIS: This is a day of glory. A great battle has been won.

MATT: “It is. But there's been a lot of cost in it, too.”

CHRIS: There's always cost. We will all die, it just depends on how. We died fighting a dragon, and we lived fighting a dragon. What more do you want? That's the smile I want to see.

MATT: “I'm glad you're back, Shale. Your wisdom stays strong.”

CHRIS: Well, now that Kevdak's out of the way, maybe people will listen to what I have to say for a change.

MATT: “We've been talking here. I think the Herd of Storms died in battle with the dragon. There's not many of us left.”

CHRIS: But there are other herds.

MATT: “There are. And while we lost the Rivermaw, I think maybe it's time we went and joined them.”

CHRIS: I like that idea.

MATT: “They're damper lands. Better for raising children. Take a break from all this warring and go back to a simple life. Will you come with us, Shale?”

CHRIS: Of course.

MATT: “Good. We'll set out tomorrow. At dawn, we plan.”

SAM: He's learned!

MATT: You guys set up for the evening, resting your sore, bruised bodies, smelling the ruin of the black dragon as you prepare for an evening's rest, well-earned. We will close this evening's session. Well fought, guys!

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MARISHA: We didn't die!

LIAM: Scanlan, is there a hot springs in this mansion?

SAM: There can be whatever you want.

LIAM: We need to bathe, soak. We need a good soak to get the stink off.

MATT: It's amazing. You imagine why he didn't mention it before, but Scanlan does indeed have a hot spring in his magnificent mansion.

TRAVIS: It's amazing!

MATT: No, it's magnificent. Guys, a big thank you and round of applause for Chris Perkins!

CHRIS: Thanks for having me! It's a great honor to be here. Thank you.

MATT: All right, well. We'll pick this back up again next week on Thursday to see what the next adventure holds for Vox Machina now that one of the four Conclave remaining have fallen! I can tell you with the death of one dragon, I doubt the others, upon hearing of it, will be anywhere near as careless as Umbrasyl was. But there are more Vestiges to find, more allies to acquire. Who knows what other dangers lie in the realms of Tal'Dorei and beyond, outside of the Conclave's threat? We shall see in the weeks to come. Guys, thank you so much for staying up with us tonight. Rest well, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week.

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. Yes, in my face. Thanks, Travis. So tonight we'll kick off here with some announcements. First and foremost, the first run with Loot Crate went very well; you guys rose up and showed your interest in that fantastic product and they've come back!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Put the stank down! Loot Crate!

MATT: Once again–

SAM: (airhorn sounds)

(laughter)

MATT: That's wonderful. So yeah, so those of you guys who are tuning into this wonderful offer for the first time, they are offering a $3 subscription– the word escapes me for some reason.

SAM: Discount.

MATT: Discount, that's the word, because my brain is stuck in fantasy mode.

MARISHA: Discount code. I love that you called it a modifier!

MATT: He said “modifier.” That was Travis on that one.

TRAVIS: Jock said modifier, y'all.

MATT: Minus $3 modifier to your Critical Role subscription for Loot Crate. But no, Loot Crate is a monthly subscription box. They make a really awesome, continuously new array of geek-centric and gamer gear, toys, T-shirts, wearable content, collectibles, it's badass. Me and Marisha have been members for years ourselves.

MARISHA: And Taliesin. High-five. There we go.

TALIESIN: High-five. That was so awkward.

MATT: That was delightfully awkward. That was great. So we announced at the end of the last run with Loot Crate that their new upcoming box is themed “dystopia.” It's everything post-apocalyptic, they've had a lot of really awesome Robocop, Terminator 3, Matrix items and Bioshock items–

LAURA: Fallout 4!

MATT: –a bunch of really cool things in this next Crate. Plus, on top of the previous stuff we've offered, they also put out what's called a DX Box, this Dystopia DX. Which is a special, premium box which contains over $100 in items into it, it's for the really hardcore awesome collectors out there. And the box itself is a lot bigger–

TRAVIS: Yeah! Look at that thing!

SAM: It stands for “Damn! Extreme!”

(laughing)

SAM: Are we unboxing? Are we doing this?

TRAVIS: Don't let him get ahead of us! Open that thing!

SAM: Are we just doing the DX?

LAURA: Shut up! I gotta savor this.

LIAM: Skeletor! Mine!

LAURA: No. no, It said small, it said small, Liam!

LIAM: Skeletor. Mine!

MARISHA: Oh! Is it Skeletor?! Oh, this one's a small too, on this side.

LAURA: Oh man. I guess the girls get to take advantage of the Skeletor shirts.

MATT: (Skeletor voice) I'll get you He-Man! (cackles)

ASHLEY: Whoa! That's a rad shirt!

MARISHA: This is a rad shirt.

TALIESIN: There's Street Fighter, Street Fighter gym bag.

LAURA: Do you want to roshambo to see who keeps the shirt?

MATT: Having had the pleasure of actually playing Captain America once, this is really awesome, and having voiced Iron Man once, this box is made for me. Now I need to voice Skeletor and I'll be good.

TRAVIS: There you go.

MATT: That's fantastic.

SAM: Oh, I'm wearing a Loot Crate shirt right now. No, from this month's Loot Crate–

TALIESIN: I got my Street Fighter gym bag.

LAURA: That's so cool!

SAM: Are we allowed to open the small one, too?

MATT: Heck yeah! Do it!

SAM: I mean, it's not small. It's more exclusive.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: Did anybody– who all did voices for Street Fighter? Taliesin did– You do Street Fighter, don't you?

TALIESIN: I do, I got my Street Fighter bag.

LAURA: So me and Travis will share this one?

MATT: There you go.

SAM: Here, Marish. What do we got?

MARISHA: This is Dragonball, right?

MATT: Yeah, that's Dragonball too.

MARISHA: Dragonball!

SAM: I mean, it's too much good stuff.

MATT: That you are re-rolling a new character, Grog suffered a stroke.

TRAVIS: Man, you're good.

MATT: I'm pretty fast on that draw. Pretty quick! Watch out for the microphone. I found in here hidden amongst the rest of the big things a really awesome Stan Lee pin, which is badass because years ago, at an Avengers-themed birthday party, we all dressed up, I actually dressed up as Stan Lee, it was a lot of fun–

MARISHA: You did.

MATT: Yeah. We got a whole Avengers Last Supper picture with Stan Lee in the middle just going like–

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: It was also– we had a friend who did Jack Kirby and we got a fight sequence going.

MATT: Yeah, me and him fought. You showed up as the Purple Man and you did karaoke to Start Wearing Purple. That was a good night.

SAM: Stan Lee licks every pin.

MATT: He does. Individually. True believers! (slurp noise)

TALIESIN: Excelsior!

MATT: So yeah, for those who aren't subscribers, it's awesome.

TRAVIS: That's a gift, man, that is a great gift.

SAM: And with a $3 discount, if you multiply that by 12, that's like getting a free Crate every year. I'm just making that up.

TRAVIS: I'm not good at math so I believe you.

MARISHA: Yeah, I know, I was like, sounds legit. Sure. I'd believe that!

MATT: So, if you want to sign up to get the discount, you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole. if you want to sign up for the DX box, for the real collectors out there, that is www.lootcrate.com/criticalroledx.

LAURA: Is there a link in the chat or something, so that–

MATT: There is a link in the chat.

SAM: We'll also tweet one out or something.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll tweet at the break.

MATT: Okay, so I'm going to keep this. And you're not going to tell anyone.

LAURA: (laughs) Are we supposed to give it back? 'Cause that's not happening.

MARISHA: Well, they might belong to Geek and Sundry, but.

MATT: You guys won't tell anyone, right? Anyway, on to the rest of the announcements! Next up, at E3, which is next week, we're going to be showing up on Thursday as part of GameSpot's E3 coverage. We're going to be doing cycling interviews with them starting at noon on Thursday, I believe, next week. So check in with GameSpot Thursday next week to have us sit in front of a camera and make complete and utter fools of ourselves, unlike we do here every Thursday. So that'll be a lot of fun. A reminder, me and Marisha are going to be at the Haven Expo convention in Australia beginning of July, so all you Australian folks in the Southern Hemisphere want to come and say hi, we'd love to see you. Comic Con, San Diego Comic Con is coming up.

LIAM: I've heard of that.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. We're going to be there. Looks like we may have a couple panels throughout the week, as well as the main Geek and Sundry panel, so if you guys are planning on coming to that area, keep an eye on the @CriticalRole Twitter, we're going to be announcing those times and rooms when they become available to us, so you can plan to come see us because we'd love to see you out there.

MARISHA: It's going to be all of us?

LAURA: Come say hi! As Travis says, “Come give us a squeeze.”

TRAVIS: Come give us a squeeze. We'll be at the convention hall and we'll be over at Petco in both places at different times.

ASHLEY: Don't give me a squeeze, it makes me uncomfortable.

TRAVIS: It makes me toot.

ASHLEY: I don't like being touched.

TRAVIS: (fart sound) That'd be great every time. (fart sound) Oh no.

ASHLEY: Oh no. I just fart every time.

MATT: That's impressive, how does that keep happening? All right, Taliesin, your next episode of Signal Boost, I believe your last episode of Signal Boost–

TALIESIN: It's my last episode of Signal Boost?

TRAVIS: But you're the most interesting man in the world!

LAURA: You really are, Taliesin.

MARISHA: No one wants you to leave, but you're leaving.

TALIESIN: It's really hard to make those episodes and I have to get on with my life.

LIAM: Here's a cardboard box, please put all your things in it.

MARISHA: And I have to get on with my life, is that what you just said? It's hard to think about 12 things that you legitimately feel passionately about.

TALIESIN: Especially when you took four of them on your run. I was really angry about that.

MARISHA: Oh, dibsies.

MATT: And we have the “Dear Abby” Vox Machina articles still coming up– we have a new one tomorrow, I believe? Who's up on that one? Do we know?

SAM: It's Trinket and it's all salmon-based advice.

(laughter)

MATT: If only that was the case.

TALIESIN: It might be me?

MATT: It might be Percy, we'll find out! Tomorrow it'll be a surprise! Go to geekandsundry.com tomorrow to find out whose article it is. Because we don't know! And I think that's it, that's all, unless anyone has anything else they want to announce, or shall we dive into the game for the evening?

TRAVIS: I would like to announce that I have an egg on my pizza.

MATT: Was that intentional? Or did it just happen?

LAURA: It's breakfast pizza, man!

TRAVIS: It's just a mythical thing, you don't question it.

MATT: I love me some breakfast pizza! I didn't know if it was actually breakfast pizza, or he got regular pizza and somehow it got an egg on it.

MARISHA: It's like slapstick pizza.

TALIESIN: It's very embarrassed pizza.

MATT: Hmm, that's weird. Anyway, let's go ahead and bring it down here, as we return to the realm of Exandria for tonight's episode of Critical Role.

SAM: Is something happening now?

MATT: I hope so, I hope we're at the intro.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. So, to bring us into tonight's game, let's do a little recap of recent events. This group of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, found their way towards the city of Westruun, which had been partially destroyed by the attacks of the Chroma Conclave, a dangerous group of chromatic dragons, very powerful entities that tore through the countryside. In the wake of this destruction, the Herd of Storms, a roving barbaric tribe that Grog once belonged to, swept in and conquered the city of Westruun. They made an accord with the returning black dragon, Umbrasyl, that they would alleviate most of the spoils of their findings toward it and, as such, would not be in conflict with such a powerful and dangerous entity. Vox Machina swung into the town, cut down the rather brutal and ruthless leader, Kevdak, and aided his son, who seemed to be of more honorable mind, Zanror, and Grog himself, to temporarily take the herd in its current state and use this moment to surprise and hopefully take down this ancient black dragon known as Umbrasyl, the Hope Devourer. They set a trap. They sprung it, and kept the dragon close to the ground as long as they could, dealing vast amounts of damage but not enough to stop it as it began to tear through the herd, as well as Vox Machina itself. Vax and Scanlan had, through the use of magic and ingenuity, teleported themselves inside of the dragon. Didn't seem to go as well as they intended, as the dragon took off, leaving a dangling Grog with his axe and chain stuck in its side, flying off towards the high, darkened mountain of Gatshadow. The midair battle ensued as they tried to find ways to carve their way out of the beast. Vax, utilising the embedded arrow hole and loosening the tension of the muscles with the dragon blade at his disposal, Scanlan's technique a little more sensual.

SAM: I fisted it.

MATT: You fisted the dragon and, as such, found your way out. During this period of time, Vax embraced the blessing of the Raven Queen, taking a level of paladin, Grog got more intelligent, briefly, as a giant eagle, and you managed to reconvene with your party members as the dragon went to recover within its lair at the top of Gatshadow. You then encountered a very elderly goliath who you hadn't seen in quite some time, named Shale, who spoke of the scouting crew that had been obliterated by the dragon. You followed Shale as she led you up the mountain to where the dragon's current lair resides. You did battle with Umbrasyl, a very hard-fought battle, many of you taking a bunch of damage. But you prevailed and Grog dealt the death blow, killing the dragon. You all began to sift through its hoard, the bulk of which we will be doing as you rest into the evening here, Shale shambling down the mountain on her own to see the rest of her greater destiny. So, as we come back, you've all decided to take an evening's rest to recover from this heinous battle that you just suffered. You carved out some elements of Umbrasyl's corpse that were not destroyed by the anger and might of Grog. I believe I told you a tooth count, a blood vial count, what did I not give you from the remains of the black dragon?

SAM: We don't know what we don't know, Matt.

TRAVIS: Scales and claws.

MARISHA: I don't know if I got a tooth count, either.

LAURA: Oh, you got three vials of Umbrasyl blood, is all we have.

TALIESIN: It was a lot of teeth.

MATT: Yeah, it was 15 or so, I believe, because a lot of them were destroyed from the perpetual axe smashing in the mouth–

LAURA: Do you want me to write them in the bag?

TRAVIS: Make sure it was dead!

MATT: Yeah, exactly, it was the more important part, really.

LAURA: I'm writing the body parts in the Bag of Colding.

TALIESIN: What's a dragon kidney stone worth?

LAURA: 15 teeth–

MARISHA: Does it turn into a pearl?

TALIESIN: It might do, you know, a diamond?

LAURA: What about scales?

MATT: Well, ten dragon claws were harvested from this entity, and about– and it's going to take you quite a while, you're probably not going to be able to rest if you continue to harvest from the corpse to get scales off of it, at this point, because it's more dragonhide than just scales, you're taking the hide off of it and you're going to need a team of people and an extended period of time to do that well.

TALIESIN: I said I was going to help with the sword, with that process, since I've got it–

MATT: Okay, that does help, it's still going to be– there's a lot of hide–

TRAVIS: We only have like 60 pounds of scales from previously, left over.

(thumps)

LAURA: What is happening?

TRAVIS: Umbrasyl's ghost.

MATT: Yeah, ravaging the countryside from the east.

SAM: We're still in the lair?

MATT: You are still in the lair, yes.

MARISHA: We have 60 pounds of scales left?

LAURA: Yeah, but these would be Umbrasyl scales. This way we can make Umbrasyl black dragon armor!

TRAVIS: Then we can have, yeah, black and white scales.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but we could make dragonhide– with dragonhide you could make badass armor, right?

LIAM: Yeah, we could have done that ages ago.

MARISHA: (laughs) I want some black and white armor. How–

MATT: Do keep in mind, the Bag of Holding can hold upwards 500 pounds, to the max.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Just be aware.

SAM: It's not infinite?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Oh, I thought it was infinite.

LIAM: Also, many of the shops that can do that kind of thing are destroyed, so–

TRAVIS: Oh, we're okay, there's not a bunch of big stuff in here.

TALIESIN: We'll get some, we should get some.

SAM: What about the gold? Did we find out how much gold?

MATT: We're about to find out.

LAURA: Well, okay, I'm definitely doing that while they're working on the dragon.

TALIESIN: We'll work on the scales.

MATT: As you guys are working on the scales–

MARISHA: I want to work most of– I want to take as much as I can–

MATT: Of the scales? Okay, that's fine. Hide, dragonhide, we'll say. Scales themselves are just little pieces, used more for alchemical elements, can be removed from hide later, so we'll call it hide. So I want you to go ahead and make an investigation check, Laura.

LAURA: Oh man! Come on 20!

LIAM: Also, I believe I was first to the pile. I was looking for what weapons there are and I also want to watch her, very closely, with everything she does.

LAURA: Does this have to do with dragons? Is it an investigation about dragons?

MATT: Uh, no, this is more to do with the gold–

LAURA: What about because I'm in a mountain and it's my favored terrain?

MATT: Your favored terrain, ironically, is not gold, it is mountains. However, when you level up as a ranger, if you choose to, your next favored terrain should be gold. Just as a character choice–

LAURA: I'm just checking for– I wanna be sure I'm rolling what I'm supposed to–

LIAM: (singing) Ducktales! Woo-ooo!

LAURA: 13 is all that I rolled, though.

LIAM: With a swimming speed of 40 in gold.

MATT: It is quite a lot of gold. As you start counting up a section of it, and you being a very, very discerning eye, you're looking upwards of around 78,000 gold pieces.

LAURA: Oh, but some of this is Westruun's.

MATT: A lot of this is Westruun's.

ASHLEY: Is it, though?

LAURA: It is, it is, it is. You know what, I'm going to keep it– I'm keeping it in a separate stock, because I don't want to take money away from Westruun–

MATT: Just so you're aware, that's 1,570 pounds of gold. You can't carry all that.

ASHLEY: If we separated it?

LAURA: Well, we're going to put a marker in it and let Westruun know that this is their gold and then we'll send them up–

TRAVIS: Oh that's fair! Then they can come back up and get it.

LAURA: Yeah, they can, 'cause how else are we going to get it to them? I'm just going to take a little bit of it.

MATT: How much you taking?

SAM: 20%.

TRAVIS: 15,000.

LAURA: What we put in is still down on the ground.

MARISHA: How much did we put in?

LIAM: Ten.

LAURA: I think we should take 10,000.

TRAVIS: Higher! Higher!

LAURA: But it's Westruun's money!

ASHLEY: We can let the people decide?

SAM: And we have spent a lot of our hard-earned cash saving this for them.

TALIESIN: I'm going to need a little bit of that money to fix my gun, too, which is very broken.

LAURA: How much do you need, Percy?

TALIESIN: I don't know how broken it is.

SAM: Our Heroes' Feasts are 1,000 bucks each–

MARISHA: About how much is 500 pounds worth of gold? Maybe that's a better question?

MATT: Well 50 gold pieces is one pound, so that's about 100 pounds. 5,000 you said? 500? 500 would be, you know, ten pounds.

TALIESIN: We need some platinum.

LAURA: Oh, is there platinum in there? We're so greedy!

MATT: It's mostly gold. Platinum is not too heavily traded, it's usually more– there aren't a lot of people in the general town and cityscapes of Westruun, these areas of the country, that carry large volumes of platinum. They're more like inter-country large purchases that are made. Most of this has just been gathered from people's homes, from personal stashes and mercantile store houses, so most of it here is gold.

MARISHA: How much did you say was the total again?

MATT: About 78,000.

SAM: I feel like we should take 15 to 20.

MARISHA: So 20% would be 15,000.

LIAM: 15's fair.

LAURA: Is it?

LIAM: We put in a lot of work. If you wanna do more, you can tell the children of Westruun, personally–

LAURA: No, I don't want to put– I don't want to put more, I want to take less, honestly.

SAM: Why do you hate children, Vex?

TALIESIN: They're very dirty, they smell terrible and–

ASHLEY: Is it a terrible idea to let the people decide? 'Cause maybe they would give us more?

SAM: The people, how? Hold a vote? Do you want this money or do you want us to have it?

ASHLEY: (sighs) I don't know, because maybe some of it may not all be theirs.

SAM: Could you pray on it and ask what Sarenrae would do?

ASHLEY: I'm not going to pray over this money!

TALIESIN: I think if we ask them, they're just going to argue amongst themselves.

SAM: Like us?

MARISHA: Yeah, I agree. We would ask an entire town to come to a decision.

MATT: That's 300 pounds worth of gold. If you were to put that within the Bag of Holding, that's the most you could carry.

TRAVIS: That's all right.

MATT: Your Bag of Holding, I'll say at this point, would be full.

TRAVIS: Maxed out? I could do that, plus I could make myself really big for a little bit, too.

LAURA: All right, but that's all we're taking.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: These people are in need. It's very hard to say, but I don't want people being homeless and we're walking around with a bunch of gold that's–

TALIESIN: Beyond homeless, they're going to probably have to run, so any money we give them will be money they will use to get out of town. To go somewhere else.

MARISHA: Are we sure there's people capable in town to bring back all this money? That we trust?

SAM: Sure, if they had enough people and enough wagons. But, however, if we leave all this gold just sitting here, won't brigands come and rob it and pilfer it?

LAURA: Probably. But what are we going to do?

SAM: We can hide it in some stone shit. Can't you make some stone shit, to hide it? Some sort of–

LAURA: Oh, yeah, like a wall or something?

SAM: I don't know, like a fake stone wall that they could walk through? I don't know!

LAURA: That only lasts for a while.

MARISHA: I can Stone Shape like a little. No, Stone Shape's permanent?

MATT: Yeah, it's instant. You just (impact).

MARISHA: Okay, Okay. Stone Shape's permanent, so I could Stone Shape a little cubby and put a little symbol over it so we know–

LAURA: Okay. But hide it well. I'll hide the hole so that we tell them where it is.

MATT: Okay, so as you begin moving and trudging through the gold, as you start moving it into that pile, you also discover 25 pounds' worth of precious gems, most of them cut, some of which are also rough.

SAM: Do any of them have identifying marks, like wedding rings, or–?

MATT: I mean, there are a number of gems that look like they're part of necklaces or rings, yes.

LAURA: I wonder why he's asking.

MATT: There are a number of gem-encrusted rings that would be very, very beautiful wedding rings if they were utilized, yes.

SAM: Any particularly small ones?

(laughter)

MATT: There are a number that could fit smaller folked fingers

SAM: I'll take a sapphire.

MATT: Okay, that's about a 400 gold worth sapphire ring.

LIAM: “Oh! This one's nice!”

MATT: So note the 25 pounds' worth of gems. You could attempt to ascertain their worth later. You don't have the materials, nor the actual personal knowledge to figure out exactly how much those gems are worth at the moment. You do also find a bunch of art and fine decor, brass and gold statues that were pulled out of homes, some art pieces, silverware–

SAM: Can I do some sort of arcana check on some of the stuff? Have we done that already?

MARISHA: We have the Hunk of Quall. I'll go ahead and, here, I hand Scanlan the Hunk of Quall

LIAM: Isn't Quall's Hunk just for Quall's stuff? Or is it for everything?

SAM: It just finds magical things, right?

LIAM: I thought it was just for his special stuff.

MARISHA: It finds things with magical essences.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, she's metaphorically handing you the Quall.

MARISHA: Here, do you want the Hunk of Quall? Do you want to hang onto it?

SAM: Sure, I'll Quall it.

MATT: Okay, make an arcana check.

SAM: Ooh! 20.

MATT: It sparks for a second, then goes dark again. Looking at it, it seems like whatever it was designed to find, it has found and expended most of its temporary enchantment.

LAURA: Lame.

MARISHA: Boo.

SAM: So it doesn't do anything. So then I'll scan through the stuff, looking for magical dope items–

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Are there any pretty paintings that grab our attention?

MATT: There are some very pretty paintings.

TRAVIS: We're not taking any paintings.

LAURA: I could roll it up, Grog, it's not your call!

TRAVIS: They're very heavy.

SAM: I got a 14, anyone want to help me look for magical scheisse?

ASHLEY: I'll help, I'll help you look!

MATT: So the armored gnome, Pike, leaps onto the pile of gold coins and eagerly sifts through with her giant ogre-ish hands.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I just rolled a one.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: There's nothing magical here, at all!

SAM: Keyleth, you wanna help?

MARISHA: Huh?

SAM: Just look for magical shit.

MARISHA: I'm covered in– I mean, I can–

SAM: Grog? Grog, look for magic.

TRAVIS: Uh, I rolled a 16.

SAM: (laughs) That's better than us!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Hold on!

MATT: His large size allows him to push through large swaths of the pile of coins. You do pull through what appears to be a very, very fine ceramic jug that has runes carved along the sides, and it rightfully should have broken under the weight of most of the metal that had been placed upon it or shifted around.

TRAVIS: It's almost all broken anyway.

ALL: No!

SAM: Do any of us recognise the type of runes–

LIAM: That really seems right up your alley, buddy, but I think–

ASHLEY: Can I try reading the runes?

MATT: You may. Go ahead and make an arcana check. Actually, yeah, this would be arcana.

ASHLEY: Just, arcana check?

LAURA: Come on!

ASHLEY: 16?

MATT: 16? It's not a specific language, they're all basic magical runes that are used in transmutation magic. You're not too familiar with anything in this realm, but transmutation is the most you can get out of it.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait, Grog! Grog, come here.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: I cast Create Water and I fill the jug with water.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: It explodes.

TRAVIS: If I die because of this…

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (explosion)

MATT: What's interesting is, as you take the jug from him, it's empty but you still hear sloshing, even though it's empty as you hold it before you. You put water into it. It swishes around.

TRAVIS: Can I tip it upside down?

MATT: Yep, you tip it upside down, and the water spills out.

TRAVIS: Anything else?

MATT: Nope.

TRAVIS: Can I shake it? Any more swishing?

MATT: You shake it, you still hear the swishing, yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I put my head in the jug?

MATT: You do. (muffled) It blocks it, quite a bit. Your voice is ringing in your ears.

TRAVIS: Can I shake the jug?

MATT: You still hear, around you (sloshing).

TRAVIS: What is this witchcraft?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Do you hear the ocean, Grog? Do you hear the ocean?

TRAVIS: (echoes) No, no, no, no.

LIAM: Bored, Vax starts tossing gold coins off of Grog's junk while it's on there.

TRAVIS: What! What the hell?

LIAM: They're very small.

TRAVIS: Oh. Come on, let me break it! It's obviously broken.

ALL: No!

ASHLEY: Can I try taking a sip?

MATT: Sure, what are you– You just take it?

ASHLEY: Just seeing if I can just drink anything in there.

MATT: You tip it, nothing comes out of it.

ASHLEY: Aww. I thought something cool was going to happen.

LAURA: If you reach your hand in it, can you touch the bottom of it?

MATT: Yeah, you feel the bottom. It's all dry ceramic.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take the jug. I'm going to put some of the dragon blood that's drying out in the jug and swirl it around a little bit.

MATT: It swishes around.

TALIESIN: And pour it out.

MATT: It pours onto the ground.

TALIESIN: It's just blood?

MATT: It's just blood.

MARISHA: I scoop up a little bit of dirt and I put the dirt in the jug.

MATT: You have dirt in the jug

MARISHA: Dump it out.

SAM: This is a filthy jug.

MATT: You turn it over and dirt falls across the ground before you.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, what the fuck?

SAM: Oh, I put some semen in it.

LAURA: Gross!

TALIESIN: No!

SAM: I think that's the magic!

TRAVIS: Literally some sailors that are at sea? Yeah.

TALIESIN: A baby comes out. Now this is your responsibility.

MATT: You go to the docks of Emon. No. You'll have to take some time with this to discern what it actually does.

SAM: All right, we'll just hang onto it.

ASHLEY: What if it's just like a Jug of Holding? Like you could just keep putting stuff in it?

LAURA: Yeah, but everything's been pouring out but there's still something in the bottom of it.

TALIESIN: Let's take it to an expert, we'll find out later.

LIAM: There are smarter people than us.

MATT: You also find amongst this chaos a number of glass shards, and you start discerning that there are a number of empty vials that were shattered and broken across the floor in this area and across the coins. A bunch of empty vials.

LAURA: Potions all mixing together?

MATT: A lot of things that were seemingly recently used in the recovery of the large entity. However, there is one unbroken vial that you see that contains a cloudy grey oil that swishes around on the inside; some of it tends to seep through the glass, almost, and then evaporate instantaneously on touching the air.

LAURA: Ooh! Who wants this creepy looking shit?

SAM: I'll take it! Can I? Have I seen anything like this before?

MATT: You haven't, actually.

SAM: Dammit. Can I sniff it to get any clues?

MATT: You sniff it and it smells metallic, strangely, as you pull the stopper off. It's not liquid, it's more like a thick oil. It's very viscous and slowly swishes in place as you rotate the glass.

LAURA: I bet Gilmore would know what that was.

SAM: I'll hang onto this for now. It might be massage oil.

LAURA: What?

SAM: You never know.

MATT: You never know. You do also rummage through. You find another unbroken– the glass itself is cracked a little bit, but it's still intact– what appears to be a small brown, silver and gray layered liquid. It's like three different layers that are all sediment and separate from each other, based on how it's been laying there.

LAURA: Ahh! Should we put this inside another glass container so if it breaks, it's okay?

TALIESIN: Honestly, I think just putting it in the biological–

LAURA: The Bag of Colding?

TALIESIN: –the Bag of Colding. Might be wise.

LAURA: All right. Layered gray-brown potion is what I'm writing.

MATT: It's got layers of brown, silver and grey.

TRAVIS: So mostly grey.

MARISHA: It's like a birthday cake shot?

MATT: Kind of. And then as you push the last of the coins in this hole that you've made in the side of the wall to hide it out of the way, you do also find at the very bottom of this what looks like an old book of some kind, like a tome, it's about this big with a heavy thick leather binding around it.

LAURA: Can we read it?

SAM: No, this could be the spellbook.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah! Dres Vina's–

MARISHA: Dres Vina's spellbook?

TRAVIS: Abjurist Noja's.

MARISHA: Abjurist Noja, that's right.

SAM: Abjurist Noja's. Does it look like a spellbook? Have we seen a spellbook before?

MATT: You look through and as you open it up, the words are scrambled and, as you focus for a second, they seem to reassemble them in Common. And as you read through, the first page has a large title across the top that says: “Tome of Leadership and Influence.”

LIAM: This is special.

LAURA: It is! Who should read it? I want to read it right now!

SAM: Well, only some of us can read, no offense.

TRAVIS: Fuck off. Are there any pictures in the book?

MATT: There are no pictures, it is pure text. Your favorite.

TRAVIS: Completely worthless. It's awful cold–

LAURA: If Grog looks at it, does it reassemble itself in stick figures?

MATT: It's interesting. You look at the pages, and the lines don't make sense to you but for some reason you understand the gist of what the content is. It goes beyond the barrier of language and, for a second, it's almost like there are pictures, but the pictures are assembled by a bunch of tiny lines in a row and different shapes that show you what it means!

TRAVIS: See, it's a book about leadership, clearly it wants to communicate something to me–

ASHLEY: Intelligence–

TRAVIS: Intelligence, right, thank you.

LIAM: This is like the Grognak comic book in Fallout, is what this is.

MARISHA: See, I was going to say How to Win Friends and Influence People.

SAM: As the unofficial leader of the group–

LAURA: Yeah? Really Scanlan?

SAM: –I don't really need the book. So perhaps Percy should look at it.

TALIESIN: I was thinking perhaps Keyleth might actually–

LAURA: That's true! You do have a people to rule. Both of you do.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Keyleth, perhaps, might want to take this book. I am not leading anyone.

MARISHA: Thank you, Scanlan. Thank you.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, you wanna trade the book for this stupid vase?

SAM: It's not Secret Santa, we're not trading things.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Fine.

MARISHA: I mean, I guess because I happen to be holding the vase at the time, sure. No you can– you can have it

TRAVIS: I can have the book?!

MARISHA: No, you can have the vase.

ASHLEY: Wait, what's the book? The book is Leadership and what?

MATT: Leadership and Influence. If you guys want to take the evening to kind of look over these items, you could probably discern most of the nature of them.

SAM: Okay, well, let's do that. Let's take a look at them overnight.

MARISHA: I'm going to continue eviscerating a dragon.

MATT: You get to the point where you guys, late into the night, have carved away roughly 40 functional pounds of hide before you're exhausted. You're exhausted and there's still plenty of hide to pull off of, but it would take you a week and you can notice the more you go, the scent is changing. It's almost like the acidic contents of the body are beginning to accelerate decomposition. It is actually, essentially, now that the body is no longer living, the acidic bile that it usually utilizes as a weapon is slowly consuming its remains.

TALIESIN: I'm perfectly content with 40.

MARISHA: Yeah, we can make a decent amount of armor with 40 pounds–

MATT: So whoever wants to carry that, because it's got to be carried, because the Bag of Holding is full.

TRAVIS: I'll take it.

ASHLEY: I can carry some. I'm strong.

LAURA: How much does the biological bag hold?

MATT: The biological bag holds 100 pounds.

LAURA: I could put some in there. I don't have very much in here. It's all light.

MATT: Okay, so there you go.

MARISHA: Yeah. Cool, cool, cool.

LAURA: So 40 pounds? I'll mark that down.

MATT: So 40 pounds of black dragon hide.

TRAVIS: You're carrying around 100 pounds of shit?

LAURA: It's magic, it's weightless.

MATT: The Bag of Colding. The bag itself weighs five pounds to her, but can contain 100 pounds. So, as you guys work through the evening, who's looking over which items? Who's looking over the book?

SAM: I'm looking over the book.

TRAVIS: Will you stand up there and get me the vase?

MATT: There is the vase for Grog–

LAURA: Was there other things to look at? I'll look at the vial that I have, the layered one.

TRAVIS: Gimme. Gimme!

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit and try and get my gun working again–

LIAM: They're no good for me, but I think last week you said something about spears or javelins or something?

MATT: There are various basic weapons in there, but nothing that comes across as anything beyond well-crafted weaponry that was gathered.

LIAM: There any shortswords in the pile?

MATT: There are a couple. A lot of them have been dinged up and wrecked but there are two regular shortswords that seem to be functional and not damaged too heavily.

LIAM: I'm going to scoop them up

MATT: Okay. So two shortswords.

TALIESIN: I don't know how I even feel about that.

MATT: So, Percy? The level of broken that Bad News is would require a workshop of some kind. Even just basic blacksmithing tools–

TALIESIN: I was going to use the workshop that's in the house.

MATT: Okay, if you guys want to go and rest in the house, then that's doable.

SAM: Yes, I'm doing the house.

MATT: Okay, all of you hop into Scanlan's Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion.

LIAM: Yeah! Chicken!

MATT: Get yourself a delightful chicken dinner.

SAM: I know what that spell is, you just pass through walls like a ghost.

MARISHA: Through walls and stuff, yeah. So what's that deal?

SAM: This is plus two to charisma, permanently.

TRAVIS: This is fucking brilliant.

LAURA: Does anybody need– Who's shit at climbing?

SAM: Pike?

ASHLEY: Hey!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Wait a minute! Am I shit at climbing?

MATT: No, your strength's pretty high. You can rock climb.

ASHLEY: I'm strong!

LAURA: Oh, it's based on strength?

MATT: Climbing is, yeah.

LAURA: Oh, we're shit at climbing!

LIAM: I'm okay.

LAURA: I'm shit.

LIAM: Oh, hey, by the way. Take your fucking shoes off and give them back to me.

LAURA: Oh what, these fabulous shoes that fit me perfectly?

LIAM: Yeah, give them to me or I'll just take them while you're sleeping, easily.

LAURA: You think you could do that, like I wouldn't notice you sneaking up?

LIAM: So fucking easily.

LAURA: I don't believe it!

LIAM: Keep your boots, then. See if they're there in the morning.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: (laughs) As you all find yourselves to rest within the confines, the comfortable confines, of Scanlan's mansion, Percy, I want you to go ahead and make a tinkering check.

TALIESIN: That's tinkering is plus four, plus proficiency bonus, plus a d20, if I recall?

MATT: It's proficiency bonus, plus your dex for the purposes of fixing this.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's even better. That'll do. 20.

MATT: 20, okay. It takes you most of the evening. You'll rest up but we'll say for the purposes of this you've only regained two hit dice for the evening's rest, of your spent hit dice.

TALIESIN: Okay. So I'm just down two hit dice?

MATT: Yeah. Any that you've used, if you used any, you don't recover any but two. Normally you'd recover half of your unused hit dice right now. The gun is fixed, the materials that you were required to use will cost you half as much as the actual weapon is worth.

TALIESIN: Lord almighty.

MATT: Which, let me look at my list here for that– It's going to come to roughly 400 gold in materials to repair.

TALIESIN: I thought it was a more expensive gun than that, I feel a little better. Oh, that's right, it's the cheap gun of the two.

LAURA: What about the Bad News? You broke that one too, didn't you?

TALIESIN: That was Bad News. The other gun was working. I broke it but it was just jammed. Bad News was like (creaking).

MATT: All right, so the evening's rest goes relatively uneventful.

SAM: I've commanded ten of my invisible guards to protect Vex's feet.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay! Vax?

LIAM: So in the middle of the night, I'd like to swing by the kitchen–

LAURA: I'm sleeping with them tucked up under me. I'm going to sleep like, you know how little kids sleep with their butts in the air and their feet are tucked under them? That's how I'm– yeah.

MATT: (laughs) Okay!

LIAM: Okay. I go by the kitchen and I get a mug of water and some spices. Just some various, simple stuff– I'd like to sneak into my sister's room. I'd like to check the door for traps.

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check!

LIAM: It's not very high. Oh, no, yes it is. It's a 20.

MATT: All right, it does not appear to be trapped, however it is locked.

LIAM: Okay, I'd like to pick that lock.

LAURA: Do I notice this happening?

LIAM: 30. You're sleeping.

LAURA: Yeah, but I have a really good passive perception, bitch!

LIAM: All right, 30 on the trap.

MATT: Right, on the lock you mean–

LIAM: On the lock, yeah– I'd like to sneak in.

MATT: Ever so quiet, you make it into the room. Pull the door close to closed, but not entirely. You look up in what little bit of low firelight is coming from a distant fireplace in the far corner that's down to very, very simple embers, you see drifting in a semi-circle around the bed, ten spiritual servants, all arms crossed, just staring right at you–

LIAM: Protecting her feet, right? That was the command.

SAM: Protect her feet. That was the command.

LIAM: I walk in. They're not on her feet. I want nothing to do with her feet, guys, I just want those shoes that she's hugging.

LAURA: No, I have the shoes on my feet–

LIAM: You said you were hugging them up here like this.

LAURA: No, no, no. I said I'm sleeping with my feet tucked up under me.

LIAM: Like how? Like Cirque du Soleil?

LAURA: Like child's pose, Like child's pose! Yoga, bitch! You know what I'm talking about–

LIAM: With your feet here?

LAURA: No! Like this.

LIAM: That's what you said!

LAURA: Here I'll show you. Sorry, guys, you don't get to see– But it's like this, Liam–

SAM: Oh, that's so vulgar!

LAURA: No, it's not!

(laughter)

LIAM: Okay, guys, this is a little bit of family trouble, just give me a minute. And I leap on top of her, I take the cup of water and I splash it in her face and I throw flour on her face like that!

LAURA: What?! What the fuck?!

LIAM: Give me my boots! Give me my boots! You give me my damn boots!

(laughter)

MATT: You are immediately pulled off of the bed, slammed onto the ground on the floor–

LIAM: I don't get to roll?!

MATT: –as all the spirits hold you down. No.

LIAM: No dexterity, no nothing?!

MATT: No, because the moment that you go ahead and splash the water and go towards her, they're on top of you, this isn't about dodging–

LIAM: I left her feet alone!

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. What's happening? Don't attack him! Don't attack him!

MATT: Right. It was less of you trying to avoid and more to see if they could grab you.

LIAM: Yeah, okay.

(laughter)

MATT: So you're vaulted off and slammed onto the ground and they're just holding you there. Not attacking you, they're just holding you–

LIAM: Give me my boots, you greedy shitbird.

LAURA: What? You think I was really going to keep them?

LIAM: I want them now. I don't trust you as far as I can throw you. I want you to– just keep holding me up, guys. I want you to put them on my feet now.

LAURA: But they look so good on me. And your feet are so smelly! Are you– are you mad?

LIAM: I gave up my life for you. I will have my shoes. Please.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: One of the servants begins slowly going towards your foot and (sniffs).

(laughter)

LAURA: They're smelly, they're really smelly. See?

LIAM: We should cap 'em, right boys?

LAURA: What if–?

SAM: You think any of my servants are boys?

(laughter)

LIAM: I assume they have both sets of parts, actually–

SAM: That's true, that's true.

(laughter)

LAURA: I suppose I could part with them.

LIAM: Waiting.

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. Ahh! I'm not putting them on your feet.

LIAM: Sure you are.

LAURA: No, I am not! But before I do, I want payment, for these boots. What's going on with you and Keyleth?

(laughter)

LAURA: Right here. I'll give you these boots if you tell me.

LIAM: I could rescind my deal with an all-powerful deity and let you fall to the ground or you could hear about my personals. What's your choice?

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Give me my fucking boots!

LAURA: You love her? You love her so much. Take one, right here. You could put it on, cover up at least one foul stench in the room.

LIAM: No, I can't because they're holding me around the arms–

MATT: Two of the servants take the boot from her and start putting it on your feet. Kind of polish it a little bit.

LAURA: Does she feel the same way about you?

LIAM: Ask her.

LAURA: (gasps) Maybe I will. Fine. Here's your other boot. Servants–

MATT: They take it and they hold you down even still forcefully, grab your other leg and gingerly put the other boot on. Polish it–

LAURA: Now go to sleep, we fought a dragon yesterday.

LIAM: (laughs) I love you, but you are a terrible person. And I walk out the door.

MATT: (laughs) And you walk away.

LAURA: (coughs) I spend 15 minutes getting all the flour off of my bed.

MARISHA: I go to Scanlan. Scanlan?

SAM: Oi?

MARISHA: Did I hear you had a hot spring, or something like that? Or like a spa here? I feel like you'd have a spa– Because I am covered in dragon bile.

SAM: Ooh, yes. Well–

MARISHA: Not. no, no.

SAM: No?

MARISHA: Just, can you point me in the direction of the spa?

SAM: Oh, I'm not coming with you. Don't worry, darling. Yes, it's downstairs in the third basement– I don't know!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Thank you!

MATT: You hear a (stone shifting) shift as a third basement is created in the bottom of the mansion–

SAM: Right next to the boiler room!

MATT: Another shake as a boiler room has now apparated right next–

MARISHA: Is it a very fantastic bathhouse?

MATT: It's not bad, actually. It's a fine natural hot spring, a comfortable hot tub temperature.

SAM: It's got Russian temperature, Swedish temperature, Finnish temperature–

MARISHA: I go over the comms and I say: hey, Vex, Pike, I think I just found the new hangout spot for the ladies–

ASHLEY: Where are you?

MARISHA: I'm in the third basement, come down!

TALIESIN: There's a third basement?

TRAVIS: What's in the third basement?

SAM: Yeah, we can all hear you–

TALIESIN: Yeah we can all hear you. You can't just pick people, you are aware of that?

MARISHA: Oh, I mean. Shit! Uh. This is not Keyleth, this is another transmission you're picking up, it's– I'll change the channel

TRAVIS: (shouting) Party down in the third basement!

LAURA: All right, let's go down.

TRAVIS: We're all going down.

MATT: So, ladies, you all convene in this beautiful hot, air filled with steam. There's a fountain in the corner with some rocks and some nice plants around the area. There's a beautiful giant portrait of Scanlan, nude, sprawled over a rock–

(laughter)

MATT: With a towel just gently placed on his knee.

(laughter)

SAM: Not covering anything.

MATT: No, no. It's decorative. As soon as you all sink in this moment, the door opens behind you as Percy and Grog come storming in.

TRAVIS: Shit yeah! CANNONBALL!

LAURA: Well, this was peaceful–

TRAVIS: Heh! Look at Scanlan's wiener in that picture. (laughs)

ASHLEY: I'm going to cannonball in too.

MATT: Pike jumps in–

TALIESIN: I'm taking off my glasses and going to go soak in a corner quietly.

LAURA: I go find Keyleth.

MATT: All right, so you guys have made your way comfortable into the hot spring. Vex saunters over to you with a look of intention on her face.

MARISHA: You look so intent.

LAURA: Yes. Do you like the hot springs?

MARISHA: I love the hot springs, aren't they fantastic?

LAURA: I do too. I sit down next to her. So my brother.

MARISHA: (coughs)

LAURA: What's going on with you guys? Because I just asked him and he got really awkward. I mean, is it for real? Is it definitely happening? Are you guys “in love?” Getting married? Having babies? Little druid babies?

MARISHA: Oh wow, you just said a lot of things in a very short space of time. You know, we just killed a dragon.

LAURA: We did.

MARISHA: We just killed a dragon.

LAURA: I know, I feel so alive!

MARISHA: Okay. So that's about as far as I got. I wasn't sure if I was going to, you know, live past that. I wasn't sure if he was going to live past that. I wasn't sure if you were going to live past that. Really, any of us–

LAURA: But we did.

MARISHA: Yeah we did, we did. Now there's three more. And I have a lot that I still have to do and still have to figure out about myself.

LAURA: So do you like him? Do you love him? That's an answer, you can just answer it, it's not a big deal, you just say yes or no–

MARISHA: (sighs) I'm afraid what will happen if I say yes.

LAURA: Okay, that's not what I asked, though. Don't think about the fear. Think about what you're feeling.

MARISHA: Maybe.

LAURA: (whispering) I think that's a yes.

MARISHA: Will you hate me if I do?

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: You sure? Because I kind of thought you might for a very long time.

LAURA: You know. I thought I might as well, but here's the thing. We've been through a lot. We face death on a very regular basis. (sighs) And I see the way he looks at you, and I see the way you look at him. And happiness is fleeting in this world; we don't know when it will end. Take advantage of it while you can. And stop living in fear.

MARISHA: Maybe we're not people who are allowed happiness.

LAURA: That's bullshit, Keyleth.

MARISHA: And what happens if I lose either of you?

LAURA: Well, you go on. You can't think about that!

MARISHA: You've been to the other side. What did you see? Anything? Is there an afterlife?

LAURA: Well, I wasn't there for very long, but I think there can be. My brother serves Death, Keyleth!

MARISHA: And death is a natural thing that happens with or without him.

LAURA: This is true!

MARISHA: Do you believe in the gods? Do you believe that Vax actually serves Death?

LAURA: Yes. Yes I do.

MARISHA: What do you think that means for the rest of us?

LAURA: I think it means that– I think it means that what we do has a purpose. Regardless of the outcome, there is a purpose.

MARISHA: You don't think we're just destroying everything, everywhere we go?

LAURA: No! Are you kidding? We saved an entire town today! More dragons may come, but for the time being, people are safe, and we are safe. If we are successful, we could save this entire fucking world.

MARISHA: (laughs) I don't know if I'm cut out to be a hero.

LAURA: You already are.

MARISHA: (groans) I don't know about that.

LAURA: Anyway. Be happy. Go to him. Just live in the moment, don't worry about it right now.

MARISHA: Maybe there's another time and another place where we don't have to. But now I feel like we do.

LAURA: We're in a mansion right now. Fucking cannonball! And I get up and I cannonball.

MATT: Big splash. Hot water across your face–

TRAVIS: Four and a half!

LAURA: All right. I need a higher– I need a broom!

MATT: Servants come by and fill your goblets that they brought you, with wine, because, drinking in hot tubs, what could possibly go wrong?

LIAM: Did you just cannonball away?

LAURA: I did.

LIAM: We all do it, we all do it.

ASHLEY: Should we have a cannonball contest?

MARISHA: I cast Breathing Underwater on myself and I just sink to the bottom of the pool and I just stay there for a really long time at the bottom of the pool.

MATT: Do you have Water Breathing prepared? Or was this your Alter Self gills?

MARISHA: Alter Self! Yeah, totally! Gills. I can do that.

MATT: So the sides of Keyleth's throat just sprout gills suddenly and naturally and she sinks underneath.

TRAVIS: (shouting) Keyleth! No! No! And I run over and pick her up off the bottom, which is essentially suffocating her, right?

MATT: Grog pulls you out of the water and shakes you abruptly

MARISHA: Wha–! Ow!

TRAVIS: Gills, sorry. And I shove her back in the water.

(laughter)

MATT: Back under.

MARISHA: And I just let myself sink again

(laughter)

LIAM: On a side note, I have an earring as well and I heard everyone go down into the hot springs so I went back to the kitchen and got some of that chicken sorbet that they make here.

MATT: It's delicious.

LIAM: And I went back to my sister's room and I pulled the blanket down and I just smeared it all along the inside of the bed. And then I bring up the blanket and tuck it in nice. It looks perfect.

MATT: The ten servants watch the whole thing and just nod, well done.

LAURA: That's disgusting!

SAM: They had their orders.

TALIESIN: You are the worst of us.

LIAM: Goodnight boy-girls.

SAM: (husky voice) Goodnight.

TRAVIS: Wait, is Percy in the water?

MATT: Yeah, Percy's in the water with you guys.

ASHLEY: You got in? No, he went into the corner?

TRAVIS: Did you do a cannonball?

TALIESIN: No, I do not cannonball.

LAURA: Cannonball, Percy!

TALIESIN: I do not cannonball!

TRAVIS: Percy!

TALIESIN: I can't wear my glasses, I'm going to hit something and I'm just going to bleed everywhere

ASHLEY: A cannonball contest?

SAM: You want to do a cannonball contest?

ASHLEY: Let's do a cannonball contest.

TALIESIN: Fine. If there's a dare involved, that's completely different.

ASHLEY: How much money should we put on it?

SAM: 15,000 gold.

(laughter)

LAURA: How about five pounds of gems?

SAM: Sure. Do we all have that?

LAURA: No, but I have it and I'll put it in the middle.

SAM: All right. Five pounds of gems.

MATT: Five pounds of gems.

SAM: I haven't been here, but I wander in eating some chicken with no pants.

(laughter)

MATT: You just got Donald Ducked, guys!

LAURA: Scanlan! Oh Scanlan! Your painting! Your painting is not accurate, Scanlan!

SAM: Oh. No, of course not. It's artistic licence. Come on.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Did they run out of paint, is that what happened?

SAM: All right, the rules: Everyone gets one jump to be officiated by–? Who? Sarenrae?

LAURA: Somebody has to– by your servants.

SAM: They'll vote for me.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Wait! What are we doing? We're doing a cannonball contest?

MARISHA: Oh, I'll join this. I swim back up to the top to join.

SAM: Can you officiate? Are you going to join or are you in too much of a funk to?

ASHLEY: Grog can officiate. Be fair.

TRAVIS: I will!

ASHLEY: But vote for me.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: Who's up first?

MATT: Who's going first?

SAM: Alphabetical order.

ASHLEY: Keyleth!

MARISHA: Oh sure.

MATT: So, Keyleth. You go ahead and swim up, take some time back, rush forward, leap. Make an–

MARISHA: We've had a short rest, right?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: Okay. Acrobatics check?

MATT: No, this is an athletics check. This is a jump, leap and–

MARISHA: Not bad. 19.

LAURA: Oh, that's good.

MATT: She jumps into the air, seemingly weightless–

MARISHA: And in midair, I use my bonus action to turn into an earth elemental!

MATT: Turns into an almost literal cannonball, displaces enough water to the point where the actual water level in the hot spring, now, is about two inches lower than it was before–

TALIESIN: I'm going upstairs to get a bottle of raw sodium.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It's on, motherfucker!

MARISHA: I come out. Yeah!

ASHLEY: That was good, that was good, that was good!

TALIESIN: Actually, I send a servant. I tell them what it is.

MARISHA: Can we refill the pool after each use? Is it magical enough to where we can refill the pool?

SAM: Sure, there's a trickle–

ASHLEY: Hey, it's my turn! Do a little stretching.

MATT: Do you have your gauntlets on or not?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: So you're just like–

ASHLEY: Naked with gauntlets.

MATT: You're not wearing anything?

ASHLEY: Nope!

SAM: But you can't see her naughty bits because they glow with heavenly light.

LIAM: Here come the artists!

TRAVIS: The sound of 10,000 pens hitting paper.

MATT: So this strong, stout, powerful gnomish female form steps out of the water with these large gauntlets with an ogre face across the back. Looms up, gets a good distance, turns around, focuses, leaps. Make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Squash that! Ooh, snip diggity!

LAURA: Oh shit!

ASHLEY: 23?

MATT: Amazing as your earth elemental form was, it displaced about the size an earth elemental would. Pike's much smaller form managed to displace about as much as an earth elemental would. Water goes flying out, spraying you guys. The water itself takes a while to actually calm down again–

TRAVIS: I actually slip and fall backwards like–

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Whoa!

ASHLEY: Whoa, that was a big one!

(laughter)

MATT: Who's up next?

LAURA: Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm not done, I'm still working on something.

ASHLEY: Oh, wait, you should have gone before me. I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: I'm working on something, you go next. I've got a pot and some cloth, and a whole thing–

LAURA: Oh, I'm the only one that's left?

SAM: No, I'm here too! L, M, N, P, Q, R, S. That's me! Oh boy.

ASHLEY: Sorry I jumped you, Percy– He was gone, that's why.

SAM: I'm going to take a flying leap and jump in while cannonballing.

MATT: All right, athletics check.

SAM: Sploosh. That's an 11.

(laughter)

SAM: And when I hit the water I set off a level two Thunderwave.

(laughter)

MATT: So Scanlan doesn't sprint but gingerly jogs up to the side of the pool, leaps in the air. It sends waves out from each side and drenches all of you waiting on the side again–

(laughter)

MATT: As the water comes rushing back, slapping into you, Scanlan, after the fact but, nevertheless, a very impressive display.

SAM: Why, thank you. Take a bow, take a bow.

ASHLEY: Good job, good job.

SAM: Thank you, thank you. Percy, are you back yet?

TALIESIN: I'm ready.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I've got a kettle–

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And what is essentially a giant cheesecloth teabag of raw sodium in an oil holding base. You are aware of what will happen when I hit the water?

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: Okay, cool. I grab the kettle. I put it to my chest. I take a run, and I leap into–

MARISHA: Isn't this is detrimental to your health?!

TALIESIN: Yes, this is a terrible idea. Do not do this. Do not do this. You will die. And I take a run and jump head into the–

MARISHA: (shouting) Percy, no!

MATT: Make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Not acrobatics? Athletics. 23

MATT: 23, okay. So, as you land and hit the water, there's a momentary pause, a little (sploosh, explosion sound). A secondary explosion that sounds dulled and covered until it hits the air in a loud cacophonous (explosion sound). Water and smoke and pieces of metal go flying as the kettle is destroyed. You, Percy, suffer–

TALIESIN: Should have mostly directed down but I'm aware that some–

MATT: Yeah. 23 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage from shrapnel and pieces of metal that have just scattered across your chest but nevertheless, a very impressive display.

LIAM: For science!

ASHLEY: Total Party Kill cannonball!

TRAVIS: I look down and pull out a small piece of the kettle out of my pectoral and toss it away. That was very impressive, all of you. I'm very impressed. It seems that–

SAM: The twins!

MATT: The twins haven't gone.

TRAVIS: Oh, oh! I'm so sorry.

LAURA: It's all right, Grog.

TRAVIS: No, no. Get it. Go do it.

LAURA: All right. I take my broom.

LIAM: Here comes the bellyflop–

LAURA: I know, right? I fly 20 feet up. As high as the ceiling. How high is the ceiling?

SAM: Not that high.

LAURA: I get to the top of the ceiling.

MATT: Okay, it's about 15, 20 feet up from the water's surface.

LAURA: All right. I stand up on the broom.

MATT: Ceiling's right above you. You're having to hunch forward a little bit.

LAURA: And right as I cannonball off of the broom, I release Trinket out of the necklace too so (shouting) double cannonball!

MATT: As you leap off, make an athletics check.

LAURA: 13!

MATT: Make an athletics check for Trinket.

LAURA: Oh, man. I thought that was going to be good. Me and Trinket kind of suck. What is that, strength?

MATT: Strength, yes.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16. As you hit the water, there's a (double splooshing sound) as a bear is suddenly placed magically into the water beneath you at the same velocity, causing the water itself to splash outward, in a large column, a spray that gently comes down around the sides of the initial splash. Impressive, a very impressive display.

SAM: Impressive. And she didn't really use magic, so that's good. Bonus points there.

MATT: Trinket eventually comes out of the water. (growl, shaking coat sound) Shakes off.

LIAM: Is the judging of this up to artistic interpretation, like ice skating?

SAM: That's up to Grog!

TRAVIS: Well done, all around. Really, I'm really quite impressed. However, there was only one–

ASHLEY: Hang on. He still has to go.

LAURA: No, he's not in the room.

ASHLEY: He's not in the room.

TRAVIS: Yeah, wait. Is Vax going to do it? Is he coming down?

LAURA: Is he stealthing right now and he's actually in the room?

SAM: I don't think so.

LIAM: (snoring)

TRAVIS: No, there was only one that managed to draw blood with their display. Therefore, Percy is the winner.

(applause)

SAM: Well met, well met. Five pounds of gems?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: He needs it!

MATT: He takes it and smiles as the blood slowly runs from one nostril–

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh man!

TALIESIN: Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to sleep off this spa.

(laughter)

LIAM: Those gems are going to turn into lead, aren't they?

TALIESIN: Got plans for one of them–

MATT: He takes the gems in one hand, takes the towel, wraps it around as he steps out of the water with the other and makes his way outside of the spa.

TALIESIN: Leaving a little trail of blood all the way down the corridor.

(laughter)

SAM: Good game, good game.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: Well, I'm going to bed.

LAURA: All right, all right.

MATT: All right. You guys go, find your way to your respective rooms, rest for the remainder of the evening. Wake up to the smell of wonderfully cooked chicken wafting through the hallways of the mansion. The only person that has a unique evening's sleeping is Vex, who slides into her comfortable, silk sheet bed to a (sucking sound) to find some sort of now chilled but loosely room-temperature chicken paste–

LAURA: That is just disgusting.

TALIESIN: Don't you mean, that's fowl?

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Oh! Fowl!

LAURA: I don't even care. Trinket loves it.

MATT: And Trinket is all over that. Trinket is now just lapping it up from the inside of the bed–

LAURA: Yeah. I just go to sleep and I'll take a shower in the morning.

MATT: Okay. All right. You all wake up. Breakfast is at your disposal. You begin to eat comfortably, you wash up, Vex–

LAURA: A lot.

MATT: Is there anything else you wish to achieve here or shall we continue with the rest of your journey?

SAM: Well, we just have a few things to divvy up. I've learned about the book that we found from the dragon. It is filled with knowledge that can increase someone's abilities.

LAURA: What abilities?

SAM: The abilities that I happen to be very good at would be even better.

LAURA: Hmm.

MARISHA: I don't want any part of that.

SAM: It's not my sex abilities.

MARISHA: Oh, oh. Okay.

SAM: Actually, technically yes. Technically, yes. My sex ability–

LAURA: What abilities? (laughs)

SAM: Charismatic abilities.

LAURA: Oh?

ASHLEY: Oh, it just gives you, you have all the charisma?

SAM: Permanently better charisma.

LAURA: Well, Keyleth, as you make that awkward-ass face, maybe you should improve your charisma.

LIAM: You smell like chicken.

LAURA: Yeah, somebody put chicken paste in my bed. I don't know who it could be.

LIAM: Yeah, we've got to get out of this mansion.

LAURA: Yeah. Weird.

TRAVIS: Well, I also went to my room and I was like “Man, what I could really–” and I was holding the jug, at the time, and I was like, “I'm just going to break it, nobody'll know–”

SAM: Oh shit!

TRAVIS: It'll be great. And I was like, “I could really go for some beer right now,” and all of a sudden, the jug was full of shitloads of beer.

LAURA: What?!

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Is it a never-ending beer jug?

TRAVIS: Oh no, it's not never-ending. It stopped after a bit. But I got plenty fucking wasted.

LAURA: Is it just beer?

SAM: Is it just beer? Or is it any spirit? Or what?

TRAVIS: No, I said “mayonnaise” and it started to make mayonnaise and then it stopped so I think there's a finite amount of stuff it can make in a day.

(disconcerted oohs)

LAURA: Do you have a jug of mayonnaise now?

TRAVIS: No, I ate that too.

(laughter)

MATT: In the wee hours of the morning–

TALIESIN: There's chicken!

LIAM: That was one of the best exchanges of our entire run!

ASHLEY: Oh my God.

TALIESIN: Wow!

MATT: So–

LAURA: Gross!

ASHLEY: I can't stop laughing.

LIAM: Oh my goodness.

MATT: So, what else?

(laughter)

SAM: Okay, now you're going to get a bunch of mayonnaise shipped to our PO box.

(laughter)

LAURA: No mayonnaise!

LIAM: Beer. Send beer, is fine.

MARISHA: Oh, that one brought tears.

ASHLEY: Please somebody draw him just sad in his room eating mayonnaise–

MATT: Scooping mayonnaise out of a jar.

TALIESIN: A Grecian urn of mayonnaise.

ASHLEY: Oh, my tears.

MATT: Saddest Winnie the Pooh ever–

SAM: I also found out that one of the vials is a potion vial. It can temporarily give the drinker a spell of Etherealness. Which is like you temporarily turn into Casper the Friendly Ghost. You can pass through walls.

LAURA: Oh cool!

SAM: Anyone who drinks it.

MARISHA: Vax?

LAURA: Oh, that would be good for you.

MATT: Well, less drinking. More like applying.

SAM: Oh, it's rubbing?

MATT: Yeah, it's an oil.

LAURA: Oh, don't drink it.

MATT: I would not recommend drinking it.

SAM: I can rub it on your back for you.

MARISHA: Yeah, you have to rub it on you.

LIAM: I'm all right with that.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You'd need to use a stepping stool to do it, but you could.

LAURA: The other one was a Potion of Climbing, which we decided–

MARISHA: Does Pike want it? Oh, you?

SAM: No, it's Vex.

LAURA: I suck at it, but anybody else can have it.

TRAVIS: Don't you have a broom? You ain't going to be climbing much.

LAURA: That's true! I don't need it. I have a broom!

TALIESIN: Actually, I might take it. High ground is occasionally very useful for me.

LAURA: I've got a broom that flies.

TALIESIN: And I'm not that strong.

MARISHA: What was the name of that tome again, Scanlan?

SAM: Tome of Leadership and Influence. I'm torn, Keyleth. You have some charisma issues, shall we say?

MARISHA: Uh-huh. No, keep telling me about myself, Scanlan, today.

SAM: Well, I'm just saying that I am quite self-confident, sure of myself. Some would say charming.

LAURA: Some. Not most.

SAM: And this book would make me unstoppably so–

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: So, I don't know, we could roshambo for it? What does the group think?

LIAM: I think Keyleth should read it. She's trying to lead her people.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Roshambo for it.

MARISHA: I don't want to– what? I don't like wanting things. I don't care, you–

LAURA: Who has– This is– who has charisma-based spells?

SAM: Me?

MATT: You.

LIAM: That's a big fat pause, is what that is.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Why don't we think on it?

MARISHA: All right, we'll think on it.

TALIESIN: To be fair, it takes days.

SAM: It takes six days of reading to take effect.

LAURA: Oh shit. So if you read for two days and then pass it off to someone else, does it just restart?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: It's once a century it works.

TRAVIS: Oh shit! Once a century?

TALIESIN: I have a similar book, that I used–

LAURA: What did you use it on?

SAM: Yeah, you live for many centuries, Keyleth. You can have it nexties!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's actually a very fair point.

TRAVIS: That's kind of perfect.

TALIESIN: I was about to say, would you like a Manual of Quickness? Here, for you–

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh, for the next century?

TALIESIN: So 99 years from now–

MARISHA: Sure, I'll hold onto it for that long.

TRAVIS: When we're all cold and dead!

TALIESIN: I was holding onto it in the hopes of finding somebody long-lived to sell it to.

SAM: Speaking of old, are some of us older than we used to be?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: Are we still old? It would have worn off, right?

MATT: I would say, for the purposes of the travel, because you guys had a few days' travel from the actual Sphinx's lair, towards Westruun when you were travellng back, you had the opportunity to use Greater Restoration to get rid of it.

MARISHA: Between Pike and I–

MATT: Yeah, in that time.

SAM: What if we don't want to be any younger?

MATT: Then you could have said no and kept it as you go. If you wanted to take in your nice salt and pepper–

LAURA: How old are you now, Scanlan, if you keep it?

SAM: I don't know.

ASHLEY: That salt and pepper hair?

SAM: A girl never tells her age.

MATT: Would you want to maintain your little creeping Reed Richards going on at the sides there?

SAM: No, I'll get young again.

MATT: Slightly.

SAM: Slightly.

MARISHA: He said, begrudgingly.

MATT: I know.

LIAM: Set that dial back to 39.

MATT: All right then. Anything else?

MARISHA: What were you going to say, Percy?

TALIESIN: I was thinking, perhaps, you're not necessarily the person to magically augment your path.

MARISHA: That's kind of my hesitance about it, I guess.

TALIESIN: I had meditated upon the idea for a minute.

MARISHA: I'm honestly kind of afraid of what kind of leadership things and influence it could possibly tell me. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.

TALIESIN: (laughs)

SAM: I do!

MARISHA: You can read it, Scanlan.

SAM: Yes!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: At the very least, it'll keep him busy for four or five days.

MARISHA: That's true.

ASHLEY: That's true. That's true.

TALIESIN: Because you have to read for 48 hours–

LAURA: What if he gets even more charismatic and then he proposes again? And he charms you more?

ASHLEY: Well, if he's so charming, I just wouldn't be able to help it.

LAURA: It's possible.

MARISHA: I know, that's my– actually, my only other regret is do we want to turn Scanlan into a charm nuclear weapon? Because that's what we'll be doing.

LAURA: I kind of do want to do that. He is super good at talking to people.

MARISHA: He is.

TALIESIN: And I think there's enough of us that we could all keep each other in check, from–

LIAM: Between Grog and Scanlan, we can solve any problem, I think, so beef him up, so to speak.

MARISHA: Tell me what kind of leadership things– who wrote that, Scanlan?

SAM: Lao Tsu.

MARISHA: Tell me what kind of leadership skills Lao Tsu wants to bestow upon you. If there's any good ones, pass them along.

SAM: All right, I'll give you some tips.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: (laughs) All right. You guys finish your breakfast, make your way outside of the mansion, back into the dragon's den. Is there anything else you wish to do before you leave? As you can only take the amount of gold that you retrieved, and the items you could farm, the rest will have to be left behind, hopefully to be retrieved at some point down the line by either the remnants of Westruun or yourselves.

LIAM: I'll just say that I've attuned to all my old shit while everyone was swimming.

MATT: Okay. Cool.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah. I carved a pretty little heart on the side of one of the boots just to make it extra girly.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: I would just think that meant you love me.

LAURA: Maybe I do.

LIAM: Uh, that is a 39.

LAURA: (laughs) What?!

LIAM: 17 plus perception is– did I get it wrong? Am I too tired? I've had a long day, people. Let's say 29.

MATT: Did you take perception as one of your–

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Oh, then yeah. Okay. You take the boots and you put them on and immediately, there's a heart there. And you're like (pained) hmm. That probably means she loves me.

LIAM: No, I like it. It's fine!

MATT: Yeah. At first you're like, sh– oh no, it's cool.

LIAM: I don't know what you're thinking. It's beautiful.

MATT: All right, you guys are back in the dragon's lair. Is there anything else you wish to do?

TALIESIN: We're going to make sure we walk around the trap that is still active in the front–

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: Make your way back through the tunnel that you had carved before–

LIAM: Have to avoid that old magic.

TRAVIS: Is there any lasting damage from the acid burns?

MATT: Thankfully, through magic healing and other means there was no scarring. The tattoos and beard that were partially destroyed–

TRAVIS: I was going to ask: beard?

MATT: Yeah, the beard's a little bit reduced from the sheer volume of acid that was thrown at your face but since healing magic was applied shortly thereafter, the little bit of the beard that began to singe, it stopped that process. So you still have some facial hair, just may have to grow back to its full majesty–

TRAVIS: I may need a haircut in a day or two.

TALIESIN: Ooh. Can you Stone Shape something for me? I would like to have Keyleth Stone Shape and use one dragon scale, if you would be so kind. Or, actually, one tooth if that would be all right.

MARISHA: Sure. Tooth me.

TALIESIN: I would like to leave the “VM” seal on the side of the cavern.

LAURA: (gasps)

TALIESIN: And just written in– what would a dragon understand?

MATT: Draconic.

TALIESIN: Draconic?

LIAM: We have somebody who can do that–

TALIESIN: “One down” and let's embed the tooth into the rock.

SAM: Ooh.

TRAVIS: Yes! I like it.

TALIESIN: We might as well.

LAURA: I like it. I like it.

MARISHA: So I do the Vox Machina crest.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And then “one down.” Who speaks Draconic?

MATT: All right, so you get with her. You scribble onto the ground what that phrase would look like. You go ahead and copy that and you embed it permanently and immediately into the side of the stone.

LIAM: And I said, bitch!

MATT: All righty. You guys make your way down Gatshadow, through the Bramblewood Forest to Westruun itself. As you hit the base of the mountain, start getting towards the edge of the forest, you see a pillar of smoke rising up from that direction–

MARISHA: From Westruun?

MATT: A relatively thick pillar of smoke, a few actually.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: Wait. What?

SAM: Uh-oh. They've already attacked.

TRAVIS: No, we go fast. We go.

MATT: All right. You guys rush through the remainder of the Bramblewood, come out into the field and are met by what looks like a series of fires that are out in the open field, north of Westruun, not within the actual city. You see these are pyres. The dead of the Umbrasyl battle have been set aflame, being given off the proper heroes' sending. It is a standard after-battle remembrance of those who fell for the herd. You see standing amongst them the twelve surviving members of the battle, many of them pretty badly scarred from the encounter but alive, nonetheless. Bandaged and kind of taking a moment of silence. You do see of that group, as well, Zanror and Worra are there. They haven't noticed you yet. And standing behind them all, one large aimless stone golem with a big chain hanging out of its chest, just standing there.

MARISHA: Fassbender!

SAM: Who controls him?

LIAM: No one at the moment.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Oh, you took it off?

LIAM: I took it off.

MARISHA: But you have the circlet still.

LIAM: Of course I have the circlet, yeah, but–

TALIESIN: I'll take it if no one else does.

LIAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: Can I find my way to Zanror? Is his– is she his wife? His woman–

MATT: His mate, Worra. Yeah, they're both next to each other and as you get closer you notice most of them have gathered their belongings. They have travel packs. They have taken sacks and whatever they could to bring whatever belonged to them and it looks like they are getting ready to move. You see Shale a bit behind them, as well, who has also taken some small supplies with her one good arm and putting it over her shoulder and tying it to her armor before she grabs her staff again. So you walk over to Zanror and Worra. Zanror looks over to you as you approach, his arm still around Worra's shoulder. “It's good to see you survived, Grog.”

TRAVIS: Yeah. Did more than that, actually. Found our way up to the cave where Umbrasyl was. Left him in pieces.

MATT: “As Shale told us. 'The Bearded King,' she said.”

TRAVIS: (laughs) A word of advice. If, as you're finding your way out of town, you were to stop by a certain cave, there might be some things for you to pick up.

LAURA: Gro–

LIAM: I take my sister, put my hand over her mouth, and I drag her back about 30 feet.

MATT: He gives you a look, and looks to Worra, looks to her belly–

LAURA: (whispers) That's for the people of Westruun!

MATT: –and goes, “Appreciate that. We'll take what we can.”

TRAVIS: Your little one. You take care of him. Her. It.

MATT: “I will.”

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: “Do you want to come with us? We know we cast you out once, but we're not like that anymore. The herd's dead. We go to find prosperity with the Rivermaw. A people we wronged and we're probably going to spend some time making it up to them, for my father's infractions. You're one of us now, and we'd be honored to have you.”

TRAVIS: I'm honored. Truly I am. But I lost a family, all those years ago. And while I will always think fondly of you, I have a new family now, and I must stay and guard them with my life.

MATT: “I understand. Well. I'm not very good at these parting pleasantries.” He puts his arm out.

MATT and TRAVIS: (crashing sound)

SAM: Stereo.

TRAVIS: Come on, it blew your hair back when it happened.

MATT: Yeah, a little bit, little bit.

TRAVIS: Magnavox, like (squeal sound)!

MATT: “You be safe. You find your way, head north of the Silvercut. You're always welcome in our tents.”

TRAVIS: I'll keep that in mind. Travel safely.

MATT: He goes ahead and takes up his bags. Shale takes up her staff, comes up to you, and: “We'll see each other again, Grog. Of this I'm sure.”

TRAVIS: Yeah. Hm, totally sure, heh. You look out for that other eye now. Don't lose the other, because then you'll just be like (scared noise) in the dark.

MATT: As you're doing that she smacks you on the nose with the staff. “I'll be fine.” And she walks away with a smile on her weathered, crooked face. Zanror yells out, “Come! We move west.” Everyone turns their heads and gather their things and they walk by. As all the soldiers walk by, those wounded and not, to each of you they bow their heads in respect. And you swear you hear a couple of murmured “thank you” as they all solemnly make their way out west, away from Westruun.

LIAM: Is it just the remainder of the herd?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

LIAM: Herd leader! We trust you will leave something in that cave for the people of this town. Something to help them recover.

MATT: Zanror turns to you, and says, “There's very little in our lifestyle that really has use of this coin, just enough to make it from place to place if need be. Besides, occasionally we need supplies, something to trade with. I'm not like my father. This I've learned in recent months.”

LIAM: Prosperity on your family.

MATT: “Hm.” Looks to Grog. “Your family as well.” Turns around and continues to walk.

LAURA: You're lucky he's nice, Grog.

TRAVIS: What, what?

LAURA: Offering all the gold to the herd instead of the people of Westruun.

TRAVIS: I didn't offer all of it. I said there was something to pick up. He might have grabbed a bunch of mud, what are you so upset about?

LIAM: He meant well.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: As you guys make your way– uh, where are you heading?

SAM: Into Westruun?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: Is the gold pile trap still there?

MATT: It is, yes.

TALIESIN: It's sprung. We have to pick it up.

LAURA: Is our gold still there?

MATT: Your gold is not there.

(groaning)

LAURA: It's a good thing I only put a little bit in.

LIAM: I'm going to go take like five minutes. I'm going to kneel down and sort of meditate in front of one of the pyres.

MATT: Okay. (laughing) But what you do notice, ironically, while the gold is still there, it's scattered about. Because there's been an explosion where the gold was left behind.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh shit.

ASHLEY: Oops.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: My bad. I made a bomb!

MATT: Nearby, there is a groove in the dirt that is dragged on for about four, five hundred feet, before there appears to be a body at the edge.

LIAM: Dead dwarf?

MARISHA: It's a dwarf?

MATT: No, it's not. It's the gentleman who disappeared as you let him out of prison.

(shouting)

TRAVIS: That son of a bitch! That thieving bastard?

LAURA: He deserves it!

MARISHA: The fucking asshole that peaced out!

TRAVIS: Blackfoot– what was his name?

MATT: Oran Blackfoot.

LAURA: I knew he was going to go for the gold. That's what he thought he was going to do.

MATT: As soon as you guys left, he seized the opportunity.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Good kill. Good kill.

ASHLEY: All right, all right, all right.

LIAM: I'm taking a moment to pay my respects to the dead.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I do the same.

TALIESIN: I'm attuning Fassbender. And working on getting the chain removed from him.

MARISHA: Keyleth takes a minute to Druidcraft some wildflowers around the pyre.

MATT: Okay. As you guys are taking this break, Vex, you notice a small group of individuals walking from the town in your direction. Make a perception check.

LAURA: I bent my paper. (high voice) 17!

MATT: Okay. You glance over and, best you can make out, some appear to be armored, some appear to be just carrying sacks and goods. There's a cart being dragged behind with two beasts of burden affixed to the front, a set of horses, and at the front of them you see a human male wearing chain mail with a heavy shield to one side, walking up and approaching. He's mid to late 40s, big black- and gray-streaked beard pulled into two points, wild crazy-looking dark hair, also gray streaked. Sun-dappled nose. He walks up with his hand in the air.

LAURA: Oi, friend.

MATT: Can we go ahead and have our guest enter?

LAURA: Ooh!

LIAM: I know that guy!

(cheers)

SAM: Sorry for the wait.

MATT: We had to have a hot spring episode.

MARISHA: Very important cannonball competition we had to get to.

PATRICK: I'm sorry that I was laughing loud enough for the mics to pick it up. Some people on Twitter were saying that they heard me laugh.

MATT: That's fine. Patrick Rothfuss, joining us today!

SAM: Fabulous writer. Good person.

PATRICK: That's not me.

MATT: So, as you're walking up from the city of Westruun, carrying behind you the group of eager-to-leave refugees that have gathered around you, you notice the burning spires, and you see the remnants of the horde leaving westward behind the group of heroes that you all had feared had gone to the top of the mountain to meet their doom. They stand before you alive and resting, and as you approach to hail them, one of them, the half-elf female, hails you.

LAURA: Sir, how fares– (stuttering) How are you doing?

SAM: Charisma!

LAURA: Give me the book. Give me the book!

TRAVIS: Amazing. Couldn't have done any better.

LAURA: What's happening in the town? Are you leaving?

PATRICK: How many people are left in town and how many have come with me?

MATT: In town, there's probably a couple hundred that are scattered throughout. Most of them have left, the party has sent them out, but many individuals that they didn't get to have still been holed up in their homes. You have with you right now 20 people, and these are the folks that have congregated around you to figure out a plan of what to do.

PATRICK: Okay.

SAM: What's with all the questions, narc?

(laughter)

PATRICK: I will admit I did not expect to see you folk again.

LAURA: Well, we're here.

PATRICK: What's happened?

LAURA: You know that dragon?

PATRICK: I noticed the dragon.

LAURA: Gone. Killed. Destroyed. Vox Machina!

(laughter)

LAURA: Give me the book.

SAM: Nope.

PATRICK: I don't know what to say. I was expecting to have to bury some more bodies.

LAURA: Thankfully, that is not the case. And you are smart, with leaving town.

PATRICK: Well, the town itself hasn't decided exactly what to do, how much to rebuild, or whether or not it's even worth it. But now, at least we can make some plans.

LAURA: Definitely.

SAM: Oi, what's your name?

PATRICK: Oh. My name is Kerr.

SAM: Kerr?

LAURA: Like Care Bear?

MARISHA: Is that with a C or a K?

PATRICK: (laughs) With a K.

MARISHA: Okay. Kerr. I like it.

SAM: And tell us about yourself, if you don't mind.

PATRICK: I have been here in this town for a while. I settled down after– I had a bit of an adventurous youth.

SAM: Ooh! I like!

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

PATRICK: How old do these guys look?

MATT: They look younger than you. They look like a bunch of young upstarts, for the most part.

PATRICK: They're puppies, right?

MATT: They're puppies, but looking close up, you can see weathered experiences in their eyes.

PATRICK: They came back from the dragon. But still, these are like kids, right?

MATT: From your perspective? Yeah.

PATRICK: Yeah.

SAM: I'm an adult man!

MATT: Who's just roughly past your knee.

PATRICK: I welcome you back to what is left of the town, and I offer my thanks, and thanks on behalf of those of us that are left.

LAURA: Are you responsible for these pyres?

PATRICK: The town has been pulling together, and we have been doing what we can with what we have.

MARISHA: And what's your position been in Westruun?

PATRICK: Oh, I don't have a position in the city. I'm just the smith.

LAURA: You're a blacksmith?

TRAVIS: You make weapons?

PATRICK: Yes.

LAURA: Armor?

PATRICK: Armor.

SAM: Percy?

TALIESIN: Well, I make things. They're not–

SAM: Maybe you guys could collab on a joint project.

TALIESIN: Smithing and gadgetry, while I can see how, to the layman, they look very similar, are in fact quite different.

SAM: I actually might have a project for you, if we have a moment.

MARISHA: Okay, before we start hitting him up for work.

TALIESIN: Is this everybody you could round up to get out of the city?

PATRICK: Well, this is everyone who was interested in coming out on this particular expedition.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah! What is your expedition?

PATRICK: Mostly exploratory. Like I said, we just didn't have any information at all. I didn't know if we were going to be burying more bodies, or dealing with an increasingly angry dragon.

LAURA: Well, the dragon in the mountain is dead, but there are increasingly angered dragons in other cities that will probably be coming here to retaliate.

PATRICK: That will be coming here?

SAM: Possibly.

LAURA: More than likely.

MARISHA: Probably.

TALIESIN: Maybe.

MARISHA: We don't know.

TRAVIS: No. No chance.

(laughter)

SAM: Actually, this raises an important question. What do the people of Westruun do at this point? Do they rebuild? Do they go underground? Do they leave and abandon the city?

LIAM: It's a huge question, yes. What do you think, personally? What is this small group that you're leading? What's your plan?

PATRICK: I offered to come along with them in case they needed a strong arm. I don't speak for the town. I just know most of the people involved, and I wanted to make sure they stayed safe. But the truth is, there's a lot of people who have nothing to rebuild, and nothing to rebuild it with. And if there might be dragons coming back, I don't know.

TRAVIS: Well, Kerr, Pike and I are both from Westruun. Yeah. Yep.

ASHLEY: I've seen you before. Do you know Wilhand? My great-great-grandfather?

LAURA: Great great?

ASHLEY: Great-great. Yeah. Two greats, not just one.

MATT: A tiny, hunched over gnomish gentleman, a little absent-minded but friendly enough, keeps to himself.

LAURA: Likes to drink.

PATRICK: Ah!

ASHLEY: Yes. You probably have had some drinks with him before.

PATRICK: A little bit. And I haven't met you, but I've heard of you.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah?

PATRICK: Yeah!

TRAVIS: What have you heard?

PATRICK: I heard that you were a good member of the community.

TRAVIS: Yep, that's me.

SAM: Nope. You are incorrect.

TRAVIS: Totally.

ASHLEY: He was, and is, but we're just never home.

TRAVIS: Grog. Grog is my name.

LIAM: Kerr, do you have a sense of how many people are left in the city, roughly?

PATRICK: Maybe as many as a couple hundred.

LAURA: Oh, that's it?

MARISHA: That's not a lot.

PATRICK: A lot of people have been leaving, but some people can't.

TRAVIS: Well, look, I would just like to put this forward. Westruun is their home. It's Pike's home, it's my home. And if you start running, you never really stop.

SAM: But where are they going to stay? I've been down to the sewers, and there's crazy giant creatures down there.

TRAVIS: Well, you can treat it like a weather shelter. If the dragons come, we set up an early warning system. They go underground. But this is their home.

TALIESIN: Here's an interesting thing to contemplate about this whole problem, is that we have three dragons still at large. Three dragons who have probably found cities of their own, so the chances that they're going to come back and take time away from their own city to go look at one that's, in theory, already taken over is very thin. And if they are traveling, then they're going to travel to cities that haven't been plundered yet.

LAURA: That's true, this one has been plundered.

TALIESIN: This is no less or more. There's a risk either way. It's just the risk of running or the risk of staying.

SAM: Also the dragons know that the last dragon who came here died.

MARISHA: I think the dragons' motives have probably shifted by now, and where the dragons might not be interested in plundering anymore, instead might be interested in any city that we are in.

TALIESIN: Which, I imagine we're leaving soon, anyway.

LIAM: Yeah, they might not believe we'd be here, but they also might try to–

TRAVIS: Kerr, are you an honest man?

PATRICK: I've been called an honest man.

SAM: I insight check him!

TRAVIS: Can I insight check– Oh yeah, you do that.

(laughter)

MATT: You may both make insight checks.

SAM: 19.

TRAVIS: (high voice) Four.

TALIESIN: If you whisper to Grog, it's going to make me really happy. Yes!

SAM: He just said, you fart.

TALIESIN: Mightily.

MATT: Excuse me for just a minute.

SAM: What was this about Loot Crate?

TRAVIS: Three dollars off if you use lootcrate.com/criticalrole next week!

MARISHA: But that's no secret!

SAM: I trust him with my life. I pledge my allegiance to you, sir.

TRAVIS: You just dabbed to him.

MARISHA: Scanlan literally hasn't said that to me in the entire three years I've known him.

SAM: What was your name again?

TALIESIN: Scanlan just found out that Kerr has a daughter, is what he found out.

TRAVIS: Wow, you pledge your life to him? Jeez.

MARISHA: Kerr. You said you were an adventurer several years ago.

PATRICK: Many years ago. Many years ago. I've lived here– I've lived here a lifetime at this point.

MARISHA: Did you have a party that you traveled with as well?

PATRICK: I did.

MARISHA: Would we happen to know any of them? Allura? Asum?

PATRICK: No, that was a long time ago, and I'd be very surprised if you'd heard any of the stories from back then. I will say, though, from what I know about dragons, that perhaps vengeance might not be outside a reasonable expectation. There might not be anything here for them to plunder, but–

MARISHA: But no one likes having their ass handed to them.

PATRICK: And these creatures are old and intelligent and powerful, and they stay that way by striking fear into people. And (sighs) as much as I hate to leave my own home, I don't know who will be able to help my people if any other things like this happen.

MARISHA: We can't be everywhere at once.

LIAM: What about the sewers?

SAM: Well, we were down there, and there was horrible, creepy things.

LIAM: We could help with that.

SAM: We could clear out the sewers.

MARISHA: But that's not indefinite.

TRAVIS: No, it's not.

MARISHA: They'll be back.

LAURA: The only other option is–

TALIESIN: There's the traveling band, by the river.

LAURA: Split the city up? Set them on different paths?

LIAM: There's Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Whitestone is rapidly becoming a very large target.

LAURA: Very quickly becoming noticeable, I think.

LIAM: Ever been to Vasselheim?

PATRICK: Refugees are often very unwelcome, too, and most of the people here did not have much left to lose before they lost it.

LAURA: We have claim to the gold that was stolen. It's up in the mountain. It's just hard to get down.

TALIESIN: Someone honest is going to have to come and help divvy it up amongst the survivors.

PATRICK: We can look for an honest person.

MARISHA: But if all of the survivors are evacuating the city–

PATRICK: We could probably– I know enough people to put together a group of carters to go up there and start fetching stuff down?

MATT: Yeah. And the people that have gathered around you are people that have been around you most of the time you've been in the city, or at least have known you long enough to the point where they themselves are also like-minded, so you can trust most of the folks that have walked with you out towards the pyres.

PATRICK: I'll say, excuse me for just a minute, and I'll walk off and I'll chat with them a little bit, so you can see that I'm pointing up. I'll do a little talk off with them, so you can talk about me behind my– Without me.

SAM: I like this guy.

TRAVIS: You do?

LAURA: Why do you pledge yourself to him?

SAM: I just feel like he's an honest man. He's a good guy. He's got a nice twinkle in his eye and I recognize that as a sign of honesty, because I have a similar feature.

LAURA: You do? I've never noticed a twinkle in your eye.

SAM: Yeah, the light has to hit it just–

LAURA: No, it's a crusty from the morning. You might just– yeah.

TALIESIN: How do you get glitter in there?

TRAVIS: That seems like such a shame. I mean, shouldn't we ask the people of Westruun if they want to stay or go?

SAM: Well, there's only 200. We could have a huge meeting and put it to a vote.

TRAVIS: A town hall thing?

LAURA: Why not?

MARISHA: But he said some people were incapable of leaving. There might be elderly and sick here that can't travel.

SAM: Is there a way to hide the city with magic? We've seen that done before.

LAURA: Can we make it look like it's already been burned down?

TALIESIN: It has already been burned down.

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: That won't be hard at all.

LAURA: Can we hide?

LIAM: Can't they have sentries and a shelter in the sewers? They could clear out part of it and have sentries every night, and any time a dragon comes, they just go underground and wait. Wait it out.

TALIESIN: I don't think this is a terrible– I think this is a pretty reasonable idea.

LAURA: What do you think, Grog, Pike?

TRAVIS: That's what I said.

ASHLEY: I feel like it's a good idea.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't–

MARISHA: Hang on, hold the phone. Hold the phone.

SAM: We could spend a few days here and get them started before we go on to our next thing.

TRAVIS: It's so hard to find shelter and protection that's not a city where you're unwelcome in the first place.

TALIESIN: Well, this is an unwelcome world at the moment.

LAURA: We could leave Fassbender here to help protect everyone.

SAM: Yes, I guess if we gave him away. But we need him.

TALIESIN: Do we need him?

LIAM: He's going to slow us down.

LAURA: How are we going to get Fassbender anywhere with us?

SAM: Tell him to walk.

TRAVIS: Are we returning the band?

MARISHA: Yeah, Quall did want the circlet at some point. It's not necessarily ours to give away.

LAURA: Quall's evil.

TALIESIN: Is he?

MARISHA: Selfish, maybe.

TALIESIN: We are under contract, technically.

LAURA: This is true.

MARISHA: What were you going to say, Pike?

ASHLEY: We could just leave it with Wilhand.

MARISHA: We could leave it with Wilhand, actually.

ASHLEY: And then we could tell Quall–

LIAM: Oh, Quall, we didn't know where you were, we couldn't find you, we left it with Wilhand.

ASHLEY: We wanted to leave it in one place, just in case we see you again.

SAM: Is that your lying voice?

LIAM: Sorry, buddy.

PATRICK: What is the general atmosphere in town? Are people just done?

TRAVIS: Yeah, right? I'm fucking over this shit!

MATT: Best that you can ascertain, a lot of people are scared because they were separated from their families. A large bulk of people left south to Kymal, which is the nearest township to Westruun that feasibly could take in refugees. They left directly after the dragon attack, even before the herd was there. When the herd came in, the maybe ten percent, 15 percent of people that stayed behind were then captured, some of them were killed as they fought back, many were enslaved and brutalized, and a number of them did escape thanks to this group's efforts. So I'd say those that are left behind, they're eager to see their families. They're probably eager to leave for the time being. Some of them do want to stay just because they're stubborn, but the majority seems interested in not being in a place that could be a target for more dragon attacks, as rumors have come back that there is more than just the black dragon, and many of them recall the red, the green, and the white that came with the initial onslaught that tore through the city. Or it would've been the green and the white.

PATRICK: Okay, yeah. So I'll wander back, and I say, my friends here are willing to go on a retrieval mission. I'm assuming you folks could use some rest, and the hospitality of the town isn't what it used to be, but I'm sure a lot of people would be very glad to see you. Have you set up protections? Did you hide the treasure?

LAURA: We did. We did. It's hidden in a cubby with a little mark on it.

SAM: We'll give you instructions.

PATRICK: Sketch out something.

TALIESIN: Including a little walk around.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, the walk around is important.

TRAVIS: But there are stuff out there in the woods. There are things.

SAM: He's a strong man.

PATRICK: And I've got, these are the more capable, these folks can go out on their own?

MATT: A number of them can, yeah. Some of them were there for general visual support, carrying things forth and stewards that have taken up arms because they have to, but you're essentially the strongest of a group of relatively capable individuals.

TRAVIS: I'd hate to send you into anything that all of a sudden got a bit too nasty. I see you wearing chain mail. If I may, what is your weapon of choice?

PATRICK: I'm partial– I was partial to the warhammer.

TRAVIS: Ooh. I reach out to shake his hand. I like your choice.

ASHLEY: Kerr, do you know how to make armor be quiet?

(laughter)

PATRICK: That's probably the first laugh you get. I've been there. I lived there a long time. We could talk shop about that.

ASHLEY: I love talking shop. Let's do it.

PATRICK: I'll set up a little expedition and I'll send people out, knowing that a lot of these folks that are here are going to head out. They're going to need resources, and based on what they've said, my team can go out and get some of this treasure?

MATT: Yeah, based on the description they've said and the sheer volume that's there, they end up taking four carts that are capable of doing a somewhat treacherous mountain journey with the strong individuals you send up as well. I don't know if you wanted to go up with them or stay behind.

PATRICK: It sounds reasonably clear. We'll send up a good group with spare parts, and they're all craftsmen here, they're all farmers, they can fix a cart if it breaks.

TRAVIS: Is there any way for them to contact you if shit goes down while they're up there? If we need to go in as the cavalry to the rescue?

PATRICK: Are there any–?

SAM: We can send one of the stones with them.

LAURA: (groans)

PATRICK: Anybody with cantrippy message sending–?

MATT: Unfortunately, anybody with any modicum of arcane practitioning capability left.

PATRICK: They beat feet long ago. Yeah.

MATT: As soon as shit hit the fan, they were like, nope!

PATRICK: I think at this point, it's people that are stubborn and with really low intelligence scores are the only folks left, so the wizards went right away.

TALIESIN: It's appropriate on occasion to leave people to a modicum of risk. Life is risky. It's perfectly reasonable to send people on themselves.

LIAM: Can we steer them away from the area where we ran into those basilisks?

LAURA: Yes, we will tell you about the basilisks.

TALIESIN: They're locals. They should know.

MATT: Well, the basilisks were far south. That was in the Frostweald.

LAURA: Oh, never mind.

MATT: As far as you know, they were nowhere near the Bramblewood, thankfully.

LAURA: So what should we do here, clear out the sewers? Because that's what was said.

SAM: Wait, there's three options for these people, and they have to decide for us. They can stay here and live in the sewers. They can go to, what's it called?

MATT: Kymal.

SAM: Kymal, where they're still accepting refugees, or they can wander off into the desert.

TALIESIN: Well, there's also that group of people wandering around. There's that group.

SAM: That's what I'm saying.

TRAVIS: Hey, guys, so remember the farmer? Outside, and then he turned into a scarecrow?

MARISHA: Yes, we remember.

TRAVIS: I found his daughter.

SAM: Oh, where is she?

LAURA: Did you tell her?

TRAVIS: No, no, I didn't know what to do. She looked like a deer in the headlights.

LAURA: Where is she?

TRAVIS: She was in the prison with Abjurist Noja and Blackfoot, who's now dead. What's her name again?

MATT: Amelia.

TRAVIS: Amelia, really sweet.

MARISHA: Did you send her towards refugees?

SAM: Is she around?

TRAVIS: I brought her out before we took the fight to the dragon, so I think she's still in the town, but I don't want to tell her.

LAURA: We should tell her, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I know, and maybe give her a little coin, but, Pike, do you think maybe you could–

ASHLEY: Tell her?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: Do I remember where he is?

MATT: Where Reginald is? Yeah.

LIAM: I head off that way.

MATT: Okay. It's directly west of the town, so it's pretty much south of where you guys are currently standing, because the drop point was northwest of the city. He is still affixed.

LIAM: I bring him back here.

TRAVIS: Make him sound real brave, you know. Paint a good picture when you talk to her.

TALIESIN: He was real brave.

LAURA: There's only about 200 people left. Do you know someone named Amelia?

MATT: You know of Amelia, though you– No, you did see her last night. You hadn't seen her in a while. She was one of the people that was still in the town. She was peripheral to the battle with the dragon, but fled as soon as she saw it. Unfortunately, dragons have that effect on people. She was a little shamed by it, but you calmed her down. But you do know that she's safe and reachable.

PATRICK: Yeah, she's around.

LAURA: Where is everyone staying within the town? Are they scattered about or are they staying in a central location?

PATRICK: We've organized places for people to sleep if they don't have places for themselves. It's makeshift, but– because it's been a couple of days, at this point?

MATT: Yeah, it's been almost two days since the initial encounter.

PATRICK: Right, so we've got triage camps set up. I will say, some people are going to stay no matter what, and they have the right to stay, and that's their choice. I imagine some people will come back and rebuild here, but most people, they are ready to go. They miss their families.

LAURA: An entire city.

TALIESIN: We can build a dragon shelter. At the very least, that is something we can do.

MARISHA: But these people are prisoners here. They feel like they're prisoners in their own home, and that's not a home.

TRAVIS: Then we let them make their choice.

TALIESIN: They'll do what they're going to do, but we can give them an option if things get hairy.

LAURA: Let's make our way toward them, then.

MATT: Okay. You guys make your way towards town. The largest concentration of survivors that you've been keeping tabs on actually aren't that far from Wilhand's home, in the area where most of the temples are constructed, which is generally considered one of the oldest and most protected areas of Westruun. There are two inns that are casically now ramshackle homes for sleep. There's bedspreads across the entire floor, all the tables and chairs have been moved out, and it's now just a giant room where people who had their homes destroyed come and sleep, not because it's comfortable, but because there's comfort and safety in numbers. People have gathered what belongings they still had that are worth anything or they might need for a journey. Many of them are still gathering bits of dried food and fruit and whatever, preparing for whatever the next step of their travels may be. But you probably have the bulk of the people in the town, other than a few older, very stubborn folks that are like, “I'm going to stay in my home!” The folks that stayed at Mt. St. Helens, where you're like, come on, guys, seriously?

(laughter)

PATRICK: There's always some.

MATT: There's always some. But yeah, so as you approach and the door swings open to the first tavern, as you introduce them too, a few of the folks perk up. A few children who couldn't sleep look over. Two of the kids that recognize you run up, “Uncle Kerrek!” They run up and grab the side of your legs. Your chain mail clanks and you pick them up.

ASHLEY: I look around for Wilhand.

MATT: Wilhand is not amongst this group. Wilhand probably stayed safe within his home, which kept him safe up to this point, so far.

TRAVIS: Do we see Amelia?

MATT: Looking about, yes, you do see Amelia. She is asleep right now, though.

SAM: Wake her up! Tell her her dad's dead!

MARISHA: Hey, hey. It's really important. I need to tell you right now.

ASHLEY: We see her?

MATT: You see her. She's asleep. It's later in the day from the travel, you guys went down the mountain to even get here after you woke up in the morning. You spent most of the day getting back to Westruun, so you're getting pretty close to sunset. The group has been set off for the evening's travel toward the top of Gatshadow. She appears to have fallen asleep early.

PATRICK: I'll start a few things, and I'll spread the word. Everybody could really use a bit of a party here. We don't have many resources, but I'm betting there's enough liquor for everybody to get good and drunk tonight.

MATT: Oh yeah.

PATRICK: That's the resource there's always an abundance of at this point. We'll kind of put the word out, and honestly, I don't need to organize it. I can just say, “Dragon's dead, and they did it. We're going to throw them a party tonight.” And I'm just going to let that happen.

MATT: And with each chain of that word spreading, the energy immediately lifts up within the room, and the building adjacent, and folks that were either resting or in a state of perpetual anxiousness suddenly brighten up, even with the dirt-smeared faces, you can see smiles poking out as people begin coming into the room to see those who slew the dragon that threatened them. People start coming up and shaking your hands, individuals who haven't seen you guys for years, people that lived down the street and gave you a passing hello in the younger days of your youth, are now coming up to you with a look of absolute appreciation and thanks. Just as that energy picks up, the wine and the ale begin to go throughout the area as stores of them beneath the taverns that were not found by the herd, as there were only so many members of the herd and a larger number of actual inns and taverns throughout the town, people start grabbing cups. Even some of the kids start coming up with cups, and the parents are like, “Hmm, a little.” It's New Year's, you can have a sip.

TALIESIN: It's medieval times, everybody drinks.

MATT: Without much worry at that point, everyone's getting nice and liquored up, and happiness has ensued. Some folks pull out some meager instruments. There aren't a lot of extremely practiced bards, so your ears tweak a little at the sound of imperfect music, but there is honesty and joy coming from it, so you choose not to lend any sort of constructive criticism to the performers.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You sent the last of the decent bards out of town. It's all on you.

LAURA: Can I hang out outside? I want to keep my eye on the skies.

MATT: Yeah, not a worry. Go ahead and make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I was about to say I was going to join you. I've had my fill of party.

LIAM: Yes, I'm sure you were.

LAURA: Wait, what is that? 32.

LIAM: That's okay.

MATT: 32? All right. You look about the sky. It is clear. The dark clouds that had loomed towards the top of Gatshadow have since blown away. The starry night sky now spreads infinitely above you, and for the first time in a long time, knowing that the immediate danger is no longer chasing you, you take a minute to appreciate the sheer beauty of the view that Westruun always had. This brief moment to allow yourself to exhale helps remind you what all this is worth, and the importance of moments like this. You can hear the laughter behind you within the inn. You can hear the music. You can hear the kids chuckling and telling jokes. People clinking glasses together. And in this tiny little microcosm of a moment here, you let yourself silently smile, and really know what all of this is worth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to join–

MARISHA: About that time I reach and grab Percy's hand before he leaves the door. Percy. Percy!

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: This is giving me a lot of anxiety. There's a lot of people here.

TALIESIN: Is it about your feelings about Vax? Is that the whole problem right now?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I really don't–

MARISHA: There's so many people calling us heroes.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: We're not heroes.

TALIESIN: We pretty much are, actually. I hate to tell you this.

MARISHA: No. We're not, we're terrible people. We're terrible people. Why are they telling us this? Oh, god. Oh, god, if I have to shake one more townsperson's hand. Oh, god. I feel like I was cursed. I was cursed. I don't want any of this. I don't want any of this!

PATRICK: Do I spot that?

MATT: You do. As you guys are having this conversation, Kerr walks over with a rosy grin on his face.

PATRICK: Is this your first time?

MARISHA: (hyperventilating) Hi. I'm Keyleth. Do you want to step outside?

LAURA: I come back inside.

PATRICK: Let's step outside.

MARISHA: Okay!

MATT: You guys pass Vex as she steps back into the tavern, passing you guys.

LAURA: Pat her on the back. Drunk? Already?

MARISHA: No, not enough.

TALIESIN: Panic attack.

MATT: As you step outside with Kerr, the cold night air comforting to you, hitting your face, hitting your lungs. It helps the breathing slow, and you have a moment of control over your emotions.

MARISHA: (groan) Does the nausea always happen? Is that always a thing?

PATRICK: Is it the people, or is it the fact that you have finally realized how pointless it all is?

(surprised laughter)

MARISHA: Maybe it's the fact that I feel like I've been lied to my entire god damn life, and it's all crashing down upon me right now.

SAM: She's druish.

MARISHA: So druish. So yeah, you could say– how about a little bit of column A and a little bit of column B?

PATRICK: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah.

PATRICK: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. How did you deal with it?

PATRICK: I found other places where I could do good things.

MARISHA: Really?

PATRICK: Yeah.

MARISHA: Like what?

PATRICK: Like, I make wagon couples. The thing that hooks–

MARISHA: Oh. I don't know exactly what you said.

PATRICK: You have a wagon.

MARISHA: Sure.

PATRICK: And then you have a horse.

MARISHA: Right, yeah.

PATRICK: And then something needs to hook the horse to the wagon.

MARISHA: Got you.

PATRICK: And if you have a bad one of those, it breaks, and so people need good ones of those.

MARISHA: I don't know at all what you just told me. I'm not going to lie. But I think I get the message.

PATRICK: I'm guessing that you are bothered by the fact that no matter what you do, you seem to end up destroying more things than you fix.

MARISHA: Yes! Jeez, you're like the first person– no one else gets it.

PATRICK: They don't get it, do they?

MARISHA: No, they don't.

PATRICK: No.

MARISHA: Is that it? That's it? We will destroy everything we touch? We will cause more harm than good? We will carve a path of destruction and make it seem like we're doing good, and then people will worship us because they think we're heroes, when in the back of my head I'm thinking about all the death that has come by our hands?

PATRICK: That can be a lot of it. I'm not going to lie to you about that.

MARISHA: Yeah, you know, Kerr, you're not really helping make me feel better about this. I'm not going to lie.

PATRICK: Well I imagine that your friends will tell you a lot of things that would make you feel real good. But I'm not one for short term solutions. I think that you're right. I think that you've obviously put a lot of thought into this.

MARISHA: So much thought. I swear I've gotten nosebleeds. Keep going. That's beside the point.

PATRICK: And I've known people like you before. People who are very sensitive to this sort of thing. I have been the sort of person you are. And it's not simple. Your friend who lived here for a while, the big one, what's his name?

MARISHA: Grog. Yeah.

PATRICK: Right. He doesn't have this. He has the opposite of this. It's all good for him, right? And you're kind of jealous, aren't you?

MARISHA: I so badly wish I could have what he has.

PATRICK: But somebody has to look at the big picture. And sometimes that's us, and usually it's unpleasant. But somebody needs to do it.

MARISHA: So you're saying this is my curse? This is my duty?

PATRICK: I'm saying that– (long pause). I'm saying that if you aren't careful, it will rip you apart from the inside, but that's not a long-term solution. That's just another piece of destruction. You need to find a way to live with the fact that you do what you can, because that's what you can control. And sometimes bad things happen anyway, and so you just have to decide where you're going to pick your hill. You find your hill. Everybody gets one hill, and you plant your flag and you can die on that one. But you have to be careful, because you only get one. If you're really unlucky, you get more than one.

MARISHA: And what if the ultimate problem is that I feel like I've had zero control from the start, since birth? I didn't want any of this. I didn't want my abilities. I didn't know I was special until now. And I so desperately just want to be normal. I want to go back to being ignorance and bliss.

PATRICK: Then I do have a momentary, short-term solution for you.

MARISHA: Shoot.

PATRICK: It's actually there, and I will get you another one.

(laughter)

PATRICK: It will help a little bit for now. It will smooth out some of the rough edges long enough for us to talk for a while. Because I've been down this road. Okay? The thing is, you're not wrong, and you're not crazy, but it's not hopeless, either.

MARISHA: Okay. Thank you.

PATRICK: I'll do maybe one of these. It feels like she wants one of these.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.

PATRICK: I can read that.

MARISHA: I give in. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Kerr.

PATRICK: Yes?

MARISHA: Even surrounded–

SAM: He stabbed you in the back.

(laughter)

LIAM: The Chroma Conclave sends its regards!

(laughter)

MARISHA: So Game of Thrones.

MATT: As he brings you into a warm hug, and at first, there is the resistance because this is a person you don't know.

MARISHA: Yeah, and my headdress is a little wonky.

MATT: A little wonky due to the drink, due to not concentrating. However, as much as you travel with your friends, this stranger has seemingly come to you with more wisdom and understanding of your continuous predicaments than anybody has in a long time, if at all, and you give into the hug and realize just how nice it is to have somebody understand.

MARISHA: I was pretty much going to say that in character, but yeah, that's pretty much what I feel.

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: No, no, that's– I wasn't– Yeah. Yeah. I tell Kern–

SAM: Kern?

MARISHA: Car. Kerr.

MATT: Somewhere in that neighborhood.

MARISHA: Care Bear. I tell Kerr, even surrounded by friends, I often feel so alone. Thank you for being a friend, even though we just met.

PATRICK: I get that.

MATT: He brings you in. Gets you another drink.

PATRICK: Actually, I'll bring another drink out to her.

MATT: Oh, perfect. All right.

MARISHA: It's crowded inside.

TALIESIN: I stumble outside for a bit as well at this point.

SAM: Meanwhile, I'm telling my table a story about how I won a cannonball contest last night.

MATT: They are enraptured.

SAM: It was in a dragon's lair! I was amazing.

(laughter)

LAURA: Is Amelia awake at this point?

MATT: Amelia has woken up due to the sound and noise, and she's wandering about with a drink in her hand now.

ASHLEY: All right. We'll walk over to her.

TRAVIS: I'll stay with you, but just behind you.

LAURA: Amelia?

MATT: “Hi, yes! Thank you again for releasing me from the terrible stocks. I really appreciate that. Thank you for everything you've done for Westruun.”

LAURA: Well, thank you for everything you've done. I've heard amazing things about you and your family.

MATT: “We're meager folk. We come from very simple roots. I–” And she takes a big, long sip of her flagon, sets it down on the table and wipes her mouth. “Truth be told, I– as soon as I saw that dragon, I ran straight away. I didn't– You guys are the heroes. I didn't do anything.”

LAURA: I sit down next to her.

ASHLEY: I sit down next to her, too. (whispers) Should we just wait till the morning?

LAURA: We have to do it right now. So. We knew– your father is Reginald.

MATT: “Yes. Have you seen him?”

LAURA: Yes. He– I take her hands. One of the bravest men I've ever had the honor of meeting.

MATT: There's recognition in her eyes. Her head pulls back a bit. Her expression goes stoic as she sinks in the wordless reality that you've just bestowed upon her.

LAURA: I know this can be– I know how hard this is to hear. But none of this would have happened, none of this celebration would be possible without him. He sacrificed himself, so that all of us could live, and he spoke your name in the end. He wanted nothing more than for you to be taken care of.

MATT: (long pause) “That sounds like Dad.” Wipes her eyes.

LAURA: Would you like to pray, Pike?

ASHLEY: I don't know if you're a woman of faith, but–

MATT: “What faith do you belong to?”

ASHLEY: I follow Sarenrae.

MATT: “Then, for the night, as do I.” She reaches over and takes her flagon, and the tears are streaming down her face in spite of her smile, and she looks to you both, and looks to you. “To Reginald. To Dad.”

TRAVIS: To Reggie.

ASHLEY: To Reggie.

MATT: And she starts weeping into her hands.

TRAVIS: Amelia. You should also know, your father was a man of a few tricks. He told us that he had been saving this up for whenever you were old enough, but I think you should have it now. I hand her 400 gold pieces.

MATT: She looks up for a moment. “How? How did– they took everything.”

LAURA: He hid it.

MATT: “This could help a lot of us. Okay.”

TRAVIS: I think he knew you would do well with it.

LAURA: Dear, there's more coming to the town. You take care of yourself.

MATT: (deep breath) “We'll take care of each other. I think that's what he'd want.”

TRAVIS: Aye.

MATT: She grabs her flagon again and takes a big old sip, sets it down. Her eyes are dried a little bit. She wipes the last away.

TRAVIS: I pour my flagon into hers.

MATT: She laughs and drinks of it again. Definitely embraced the idea that she's going to get really drunk tonight. She begins joining in, singing with the music. And the rest of the party picks up as the celebration once again fills the air. The rest of the folks gathering around. (birds tweeting) Don't know why there were birds in that track.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Is it morning?

MATT: There will be a lot of partying through the night, so probably it's an eventuality. However, we will take this moment to take a quick break to the restroom. We will return here for the next bit of this adventure, so we'll be right back here in a few minutes, guys. Stick around.

(cheering)
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back. So as you return here, bellies full, the evening of drinks, rabble-rousing, and stress release through conversation and laughter carries through until the morning light comes. Everyone wakes up extremely hungover, but in a way that is well-earned and still worthy of the evening that transpired before it. You all come to consciousness, about midday at this time now.

LAURA: Whoa.

MATT: You all slept in after what happened.

LIAM: I actually spent the night in a field with Reginald.

SAM: Ew.

MATT: You did.

LIAM: That's your brain, man. I sat next to his body, waiting for people to come back, they never did. I piled some of Keyleth's flowers on his chest, and then I fell asleep, in the field, six feet away from him. Party!

MARISHA: Did you think we were going to–

LIAM: Yeah, well.

MARISHA: Never mind.

LIAM: I don't know.

LAURA: Oh. Shit.

LIAM: I don't know what I thought, but that's what I did.

LAURA: Why didn't you check up on the earring, dude?

LIAM: I wanted some space.

MATT: So as you all come around to the breakfast morning, food is being cooked up within the kitchen by some of the various villagers that have taken up to help out with what they can in the area. You start realizing that Vax is nowhere to be found and as this conversation begins to progress, he eventually finds you guys and waltzes into the groaning room of semi-conscious Westruun denizens.

LAURA: (yawns) Where were you?

LIAM: Getting a good night's sleep on a field of grass. How are you doing?

MARISHA: We had a bender.

LIAM: You need some water?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: Can you make some?

LAURA: In that endless jug? Or does it only make beer and mayonnaise?

MARISHA: Say water to the endless jug.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it makes water.

SAM: It seems like a waste.

TRAVIS: Give me water like the ocean!

SAM: Oh, no, no, no!

TALIESIN: No!

MATT: The jug is now filled with water to the top.

TRAVIS: Yeah, look! Water.

LAURA: Is it saltwater?

MARISHA: I dip my finger in and take a taste.

MATT: It is saltwater.

LAURA: (groans) Damn it, Grog.

TRAVIS: Did I do it wrong?

SAM: You did it wrong.

TALIESIN: You should try that, though. See if you like it.

TRAVIS: Is there anybody else sleeping in the room?

MATT: There are a few folks that are probably still sleeping off the drinking, but I'd say the majority of the folks have woken up in various states of grogginess.

TRAVIS: (whispers) Hey, should we wake up the rest of the people with this?

SAM: The people who've lost their city? You're going to prank them?

TRAVIS: Well, I'm feeling a bit salty this morning.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I go outside and I dump it.

MARISHA: I cast a Create Water spell so we can all have some water.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We should probably call everyone in the town to talk.

MARISHA: Yeah, we should have a big meeting, let them decide what they want to do with the rest of their fucking lives.

TALIESIN: What did you have to drink last night?

LAURA: Is there a bartender or somebody that's running the inn that everyone's staying at? Or is it kind of makeshift–

MATT: It's just kind of makeshift. However, whoever who once ran this place is no longer here, probably left with the first or second wave of evacuees. Everyone here is just kind of doing their part to keep it going.

LAURA: Can I grab someone nearby that looks like they're up and about and actually accomplishing things?

MATT: Yeah. There's an older woman who did not drink but just was around last evening who's done most of the cleaning– and even though there's no reason to clean, she's still just kind of going through the motions of wiping down the counters and putting things away properly.

LAURA: Dear heart, um–

MATT: “Yes?”

LAURA: Could you spread the word that there's going to be a town meeting?

MATT: “A town meeting? What for?”

LAURA: So we can talk about how to keep everyone safe, dear.

MATT: “All right.”

LAURA: Yes. As soon as possible, can everyone meet here?

SAM: No, the central–

LAURA: In the center of town.

SAM: Where we killed Kevdak.

LAURA: Where the goliaths, where the barbarians– sorry, Grog– where all the mean people were.

MATT: “All right, I'll get the word out.” And she puts away a couple of towels and grabs a couple of people near her, and the three of them saunter out into the main walkway.

SAM: Also, I don't know if he remembers, but sometime in our revelry last night, I asked Kerr if he could– I gave him a sheath, just a sheath of a sword– and I asked him if he could make just a little– there's some metal components to it– I was asking him if he could just make a little secret compartment on it. Like a place that you could hide a little vial or a little powder or a little note or something, just in the side of the sheath.

PATRICK: What are the odds that I would make a total hash of that?

(laughter)

PATRICK: I'm imagining I don't do that much delicate work.

MATT: No. But also, how much did you drink last night?

PATRICK: Oh, right! Yeah, I can totally do that.

MATT: So, how much– how drunk were you?

PATRICK: You know, I probably was pretty modest. I probably drank with her, to be social. And then I probably just kind of prowled and made sure nothing got out of hand and everyone was okay. Yeah, I probably– I'll take a shot at it. How attached to this sheath are you?

TALIESIN: (snickers)

SAM: Yes. Extremely.

PATRICK: Extremely.

(laughter)

PATRICK: I'll see what I can do.

LIAM: Just nail a sock on the side of it, it'll be great.

(laughter)

SAM: I don't make the best decisions.

MATT: Especially while drinking. You find your way back to your forge, which is still functional. It was not one of the buildings that fell on the initial attack. You heat it up late into the evening. It doesn't require a lot because it's smaller work. Go ahead and make a blacksmithing check with your proficiency bonus. Plus, with this, it would be dexterity. Because it's very, very minute work.

SAM: Could I have inspired him?

MATT: You could. Yes! You can very much do that.

SAM: I will give him a limerick to inspire him with.

MATT: Drunken Scanlan limerick, here we go!

SAM: Have you heard the legend of Shale? One eye, elderly, frail? To a black dragon, she told, “You may be ancient, but I'm old!” And somehow lived to tell the tale.

(cheering)

MATT: Go and take your d10 inspiration dice, if you want to add that to the roll.

PATRICK: All right. So, just proficiency bonus–

MATT: Plus your dex bonus.

PATRICK: Yeah, my vast dex bonus. 16.

MATT: 16. That's not bad. It's not the finest craftsmanship in the world, and what once was a very, very beautifully detailed sheath to a weapon now has a somewhat hammered, dented element to it that you probably want to hide with a silk or something. It's an imperfection in what was a previously a perfect element, but it is functional. It is a small compartment that actually has a tiny metal slot that can be moved closed or open with your thumb.

SAM: Great!

MATT: It's functional. It's not pretty, but it is functional.

PATRICK: We focus on function here.

SAM: I understand. Thank you for your nimble fingers. Next time, I'll ask Percy to do it.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And it will explode.

MARISHA: I make a tonic out of the glissfoil that I had in my pouch from the garden back in Emon. Pass it out, a little hangover tonic.

MATT: It does help, actually.

LAURA: All of us?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Sweet!

MARISHA: Just a little crushed herbs and water, like a tea.

TRAVIS: A little hair of the dog, huh?

LAURA: Thanks, Kiki!

TRAVIS: Are we day drinking?

SAM: Also, before we go to the meeting, I haven't used it in a while but I would like to use my Scrying Potion to– not potion! The scry that I left at our Greyskull Keep so long ago, to kind of see what's going on at Greyskull.

TALIESIN: Your scry pie?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: Glancing at it this moment now, and it's about midday, you concentrate on what you left behind.

SAM: Yep. We all know what it was.

MATT: You have a brief view, a small windowed view of the kitchen before you. It seems to be currently empty.

SAM: But still standing?

MATT: But still standing. You do notice, in the sink there are some fresh dishes.

SAM: Oh! Okay.

TALIESIN: Squatters.

MARISHA: It's fucking squatters.

SAM: Or maybe our staff.

TALIESIN: Unpaid now, so now they're squatters.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: (laughs) It's an important distinction.

TRAVIS: Can you talk through your poop?

SAM: No, no. Poo doesn't work that way, Travis. It's a one-way street.

TRAVIS: The finer points are lost on me.

ASHLEY: You left it in the kitchen?

SAM: I left it in a jar in the kitchen and I told the people not to open it.

MARISHA: We only got a C on our general inspection rating.

(laughter)

MATT: There's a parchment that's just nailed to the outside of the keep. At least it's good calligraphy. All right, so unless you have anything else to prepare in this time, most of the townsfolk are beginning to converge towards the square in the central-southern region of Westruun where you had the showdown battle with Kevdak outside of the Margrave's home. The now deceased Margrave. Everyone seems to have gathered together and there is an air of tension. As you approach, as folks are muttering to themselves, then it gets quiet as you all step into the central area. There is still– it's been pulled over, it was partially damaged before, but there is a large elevated platform that was used for speeches or celebration elements that has been, for the time being, fixed to allow you guys to stand up if you wish to address the rest of the folks.

LAURA: Who wants to talk? Scanlan? You're so charismatic.

TALIESIN: What are we going to say?

SAM: I'm still reading my book. But, yes, we're just going to ask them a question.

LAURA: I think we need to ask them where they want to go.

TALIESIN: And if they ask what we think?

SAM: We don't think anything. We'll support their decision, right?

TALIESIN: I think something.

SAM: What do you think?

MARISHA: I guess I could talk to them?

TALIESIN: I would like to build– The death of a city is such a blasphemy. It is the murder of the dead. And I'm horrified.

MARISHA: Percy, a city is nothing without living people in it. A city is made up of the people that live inside of it.

TALIESIN: It is.

MARISHA: We have to protect them first.

LIAM: Percival's suggesting letting them live here, building something for them underground–

MARISHA: Which we can facilitate?

LIAM: Rather than running.

SAM: We have a lot of other things to do– let's talk to them.

TRAVIS: How about Pike talks to them?

ASHLEY: Me?!

TRAVIS: Yeah! You were born here.

LAURA: This is true! Pike? They know you.

ASHLEY: (sighs) Well, I'm not very charismatic.

SAM: I'll be with you.

TRAVIS: But you're genuine.

ASHLEY: Do you want to help me?

LIAM: Exactly. You are genuine.

ASHLEY: So we're telling them– asking them if they want to stay. And if they do stay, that we could built them shelter.

LAURA: Help them take shelter in the sewers. If there's danger.

TRAVIS: The dragon's dead. We don't know if another one will come.

LAURA: Can we ask before we go up on the stage if Kerr, if you're willing to help, should they want that? Is that something you could help us with?

PATRICK: I would be delighted to help facilitate things between you and the community. I know a lot of people that have left will return. I don't doubt that for a second. But right now, everyone is scattered and scared. And a lot of families have been separated. A lot of people who would love to return here and rebuild the city, they don't know where their loved ones are. And I know that is preying on their minds more than their own safety, in some cases. I know most people are looking to leave and come back eventually. And depending on the resources, like what you've generously offered from the caves– that will keep them from being refugees. They can continue to be a community in this other town, and then return, well-organized and with resources to build it. (sighs) I don't feel they're ready to do it here and now, though. I don't feel they're excited about that. I know that so many of them have people from their lives they're just missing.

TRAVIS: And by the way, it's going to be a hot second before the carts come back from the cave, right?

PATRICK: Yeah. Probably–

MATT: Another day or two before they arrive, yeah.

MARISHA: Can we even say that these people are in–

ASHLEY: So are you thinking they won't want to stay, then?

PATRICK: I know from speaking to a lot of people over the last couple of days, and even speaking to them last night, they're relieved that the dragon is gone. But they're worried about more in the future. But primarily, they're looking to be safe now, and reunite with their friends and family, and most of those people are in–?

MATT: Kymal.

PATRICK: Kymal.

LIAM: I think we give them a choice. But I think, Pike, I think it's a good idea. I think you present the idea of staying and getting word to the people in Kymal that some of their loved ones are still here, still living. The dragon is dead. Summon them back to rebuild.

LAURA: How far away is Kymal?

SAM: Two days' travel.

TRAVIS: Wow. Fucking Shorthalt!

ASHLEY: How do you know?

LAURA: Was that in your book?

SAM: My girl is there.

LAURA: Your daughter's in Kymal?

SAM: Yes. I'll be going there anyway.

TRAVIS: Haylie? Maylie?

SAM: Kaylie.

MARISHA: And Kymal hasn't been hit yet?

TALIESIN: Not yet.

LIAM: Is Kymal bigger or smaller than Westruun?

MATT: It's smaller than Westruun.

LAURA: Well–

LIAM: They're better off in Westruun.

MARISHA: I'm afraid with each refugee we add to another city, we're only making it a larger target.

TALIESIN: Which is why– (sighs) There is no safe harbor right now.

MARISHA: And there's no point in rebuilding–

TALIESIN: There is.

MARISHA: Why?

TALIESIN: Because this is civilization. This is–

MARISHA: There's no point in rebuilding right now when there's still three other dragons who will only come and go, 'Stomp, stomp, stomp! Dead!'

TRAVIS: They might.

TALIESIN: They might.

MARISHA: They. Will.

TALIESIN: No, they might. We don't know they will.

PATRICK: If you were a dragon, what would you do?

TALIESIN: I would hit the city where all the refugees are going. Because it would hurt more. I would not hit the city that's going to take 200 years to be a shadow of its former self.

MARISHA: Yes, but you're also not a vain dragon who just had one of its allies taken out in this very city. These dragons are going to have a huge vendetta against Westruun now.

TALIESIN: I may not have lost an ally, but I am a vain dragon.

TRAVIS: Maybe they will, maybe they won't. How about for those who want to stay, we help build some fortifications. For those who want to leave, we'll protect them on their way there.

LIAM: We're at wartime. The people can live underground. For now.

TALIESIN: Building will give them something to do. And if the dragon comes back, they will be safe underground. And if the dragon doesn't, we have saved thousands of years of inspiration and life. It's– you can't just abandon something like this! There's too much here.

LIAM: Otherwise, what else are we fighting for?

TALIESIN: Otherwise, it becomes our friend Pike from Nowhere.

TRAVIS: That would be bad.

ASHLEY: That would be bad.

LAURA: That would be terrible.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, get their attention.

SAM: Get their attention? All right.

LAURA: And Pike, do you want to step up there?

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll go, I'll go.

SAM: I blow my horn to call the meeting to attention.

MATT: (horn noise) Everyone gets really quiet. The two of you step up onto the platform–

ASHLEY: (airhorn noises)

MATT: (laughs) It gets quiet. Everyone gets quiet. You hear one voice in the back go, “That's my Pike!” As you immediately look over, you see at the far end is Wilhand, leaping up, trying to get a view between the crowd. Everyone's quiet, looking at the two of you, now on top of this platform. Which puts you just over head height from the rest of the folks, by the way.

ASHLEY: (stuttering) Hello, everybody from the town.

SAM: I'm doing sign-language interpretation.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I know I'm not one usually to speak up, but because I know so many of you and some of you are family– (blows kiss) Um, we– I'm sure you guys have heard because of the party and festivities from last night, the dragon has been killed.

MATT: There's a cheer (crowd cheers), clapping–

ASHLEY: And we know that some of you have stayed because if anything else, this is your home.

MATT: Some murmuring.

ASHLEY: And some of your family has left for Kymal?

SAM: Kymal.

ASHLEY: Kymal. But we wanted to give you all an option. And for those of you that do want to stay, we would like to provide you with an underground protection of sorts.

MATT: (whispering and murmuring) Whispers through the crowds.

SAM: As we speak, upwards of 40,000 gold are being delivered by your finest men. This, with our help, can help construct a sturdy underground layer that will shelter you if the dragon were to come back. It will take days, possibly weeks to construct this. But if you wanted to stay, this would be your best bet. However, we are not forcing you to do anything. If you would like to go with the fellow refugees to Kymal, or find your fellow citizens scattered about, roving in the lowlands, that would be fine too. We need to come to an agreement today, so that we can help you do what you want.

MATT: One gentleman takes the stage next to you guys, man in his younger 20s, kind of soot smeared on his cheeks. Looks like he's a little weathered by the experience. Even though he looks young and thin, there is a general hardness to his face from recent experiences. He kind of raises up, looking at the both of you, below him: “I, for one, miss my family and have no home to go back to. And the homes that are empty in this town right now are empty because those who lived there are now dead. There are ghosts here I wish not to see every morning when I wake up. If I'm going to live here, I want to return with those that are important to me and build a new home, over the old. Now is not my time to stay. Especially if more of those things are coming back. If anyone wishes to come with me to Kymal, please, stand with me.” And he steps off the stage and make his way to the right side of the stage. Everyone in the crowd looks to each other, and few folks begin filtering off and gathering around him. I'd say about a third to half of the crowd begins to shift over as another person steps up right next to you guys, actually. This is a woman in her late 40s or so. She's wearing relatively nice clothing that's been kind of torn apart through constant use and not really having an option to change into. She looks like she came from money, but has definitely been pulled down to the same level as the rest of the folks here; they're living in destitution out of necessity. Her hair's trying to be pulled up into a bun, but a lot of it is kind of falling around her face, and she's keeping this kind of poor facade of her previous life. And she stands up: “I myself, my family's history is here in this town and I would be remiss if I didn't express my hesitation in leaving that behind, for the next roving horde of barbarians to rush in and take from us while we're away. Especially if this gold is to be retrieved, how do we know how much of that is to be distributed? How much was my family's versus yours? If we're to divide ourselves at this point, we're leaving ourselves open to inner conflict, lest we have a very clear idea where these funds are going. And I, for one, want to make sure I have a home when my family returns. So I'm not leaving. I'm not going to come back here months down the line and find four layabouts living in that home, made a complete mess of our things, and telling us it's now theirs. Those who wish to stay, stand with me.” (harrumphs) And she walks offstage, to the side–

TALIESIN: I'm going to get up on stage.

SAM: (whispers) You don't live here.

TALIESIN: The terrible woman may have a point.

(laughter)

MATT: “Thank you. What?”

TALIESIN: (sighs) Many of you are going to leave, and that's fair. And that's right, you're free to do so. I wish any of us could promise you safety once you leave this city. But there is no safety anywhere. The dragons fly freely. They may come back and wreak their vengeance upon the rest of Westruun once again. They may not. They may find new, fresh targets. We don't know. (long sigh) We will build an underground haven in case of attack, free of charge. We will make a place that is open to all. Since there seems to be some dispute about the finances, we will create a trust that will be used to help those who stay and help rebuild. It will be managed and it will be fair. And it will not go to titles. If you're properly titled, you'll have money elsewhere, and you'll figure it out.

(laughter)

MATT: You hear, “Hmph!”

TALIESIN: New money.

(laughter)

SAM: Old magic!

TALIESIN: Old magic, new money from ivory towers. I would urge you to stay. I would urge you to leave, collect your people and return. I would urge for one city not to be wiped from the map. And anything we can do to make this at least livable while it is rebuilt, we will do our best to help. (sighs) It is such a victory for them if Westruun falls. And I sit back down.

MATT: Make a persuasion check with advantage.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: There is a silence in the crowd and people have stopped shuffling from side to side. Some of the folks on the side of the gentleman began to shift back and people tend to stand up. And even the gentleman who was standing at the opposite side kind of ponders for a moment: “Well, regardless of what happens, we have to get word out. We have to let our loved ones know what has happened, and that it's safe to come back. If you indeed can help us set this about, I'm confident we can keep out of sight. At least, hopefully.”

MARISHA: I stand up on the podium. Um, sorry. While the terrible man and the terrible woman both absolutely have a point–

SAM: (whispers) He's not that bad.

TALIESIN: (whispers) I'm that bad.

MARISHA: I look at the man who's off to side. I agree with you that finding your loved ones is most important. I believe we can actually maybe do a little bit of both here and solve both problems. Me, alongside with the help of other magic users, can help quickly build an underground bunker. And I would be willing to help escort any party to Kymal in order to help find your people. Whereas I do agree, to an extent, with Percy that we should not let Westruun fall to this, this city is only as great as its people.

LAURA: Woo! Good leadership!

(laughter)

SAM: That's definitely Vex.

MATT: Some claps and a few folks kind of agree and nod their heads. The gentleman that you've been talking to kind of looks at you and he's very intently engaged and nodding in agreement.

MARISHA: Uh. To Westrunn! Huzzah!?

LAURA: Huzzah!

TALIESIN: The awkward woman makes a fine point!

MATT: And the people eventually raise their arms, “To Westruun!” “To Westruun!”

(laughter)

MATT: The clapping comes together.

TRAVIS: Yeah, football rules!

TALIESIN: Pike, do you remember that spell you cast on Greyskull Keep when it got hit by the dragon? The thing you did–

LAURA: That was Divine Intervention, I thought.

TALIESIN: Was that Divine–?

MATT: No, she summoned a Planar Ally. That one was–

ASHLEY: To help rebuild?

TALIESIN: That was expensive, wasn't it?

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: That spell was expensive.

ASHLEY: Yes!

LAURA: It was, like, a thousand gold?

MATT: That was Planar Ally–

ASHLEY: What do you want to rebuild? I mean, underground–

MATT: Depends on how long you want it to stay. So a task measured in hours requires a thousand gold per hour.

TALIESIN: No, no, no.

MATT: A task measured in days requires 10,000 gold per day–

LAURA: (in alarm) No, no, no!

MATT: Mind you, these entities can do some crazy stuff.

SAM: Yeah. And we have 40,000 more gold coming. That's four days of entities–

LAURA: But I don't want to use up all the– we can do that after things are–

SAM: What else are we going to spend the money on?

ASHLEY: I can try Divine Intervention again so–

MARISHA: We don't want to rebuild a city that's going to be stomped by dragons in another three months!

ASHLEY: No, just the bunker, right?

LAURA: Just the bunker–

ASHLEY: Not the city.

LAURA: No.

ASHLEY: Keyleth can make the bunker.

LAURA: It's fine.

SAM: For hundreds and hundreds of people?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Honestly, if we take a couple days, I can make a pretty extensive–

TALIESIN: We're going to use a previously existing sewer system, and we're just going to reinforce it with pillars and then block off any of the sewage and re-route it, since it doesn't have to handle the load that it used to.

ASHLEY: We're going to build a vault?

TALIESIN: We're going to build a vault.

PATRICK: While they're chatting, I'll step forward and I'll say: we all have a lot to think about. Talk with your friends and neighbors and come to know your own minds. This is a decision that has to be made soon, but not on the spur of the moment. Thank you for coming.

MATT: One man in the front, an old friend of yours, his name is Joseph, puts his hand up, “Kerrek! Of which mind are you? Are you staying or are you going? Are you going to escort, go along as an escort with this woman, or are you staying to protect us? Where you walk, I walk.”

PATRICK: I am going to do what would be best for the town as a whole. I am not sure– to a certain extent, I'll be led what is needed by the town. If–

MATT: “What we need is a decision.”

SAM: If I may, If I may, I'm so sorry, I know everyone's talking here. A city is not just a collection of houses and streets. It is a person of itself. And we can't go dividing it right now. Everyone should stay here. Everyone should be a unit, a cohesive unit. And we: me, Keyleth, and one of your own, Pike, will definitely travel to Kymal to spread the word, if you give us a list of your ancestors, family members, friends, we can get word to all of them very quickly.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

SAM: 28.

MATT: Everyone in the crowd seems to nod, and the gentleman kind of nods his head to you, “All right.”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You're a monster.

PATRICK: Since you haven't been as present in the community for a while, if I am sure that things are adequately defended here, I might go myself to ensure the proper apportionment of funds and to talk to those of our townsfolk who have already left, and perhaps organize them a little more effectively so that they can return.

MATT: There's a few nods of agreement that spread through the crowd, and actually, the folks on the left side, with the woman that seemed to building tension and arguing amongst themselves over the ideas of that, seem to quiet a bit at you taking up that position. You guys notice this, too; there's a general respect for Kerrek that other folks don't seem to carry in this community. Everyone nods in agreement. “Well, I have no objections!” “Neither do I.” The woman on the other side. (huffs) “Well, have no other choice, do we?” Everyone nods, and they look up to the rest of you. Look to you. “Then let's begin building.”

LAURA: Bunker it is.

LIAM: As all that starts to wind down, I ask my sister to point me towards Reginald's daughter.

LAURA: Do you see her?

LIAM: The one with the nice hair?

LAURA: Yeah, that one. And the giant bag of gold.

LIAM: I seek her out in the crowd.

MATT: She's still looking up, kind of by herself in the crowd, clapping off to the side as you approach.

SAM: I'm going to hang near him.

LIAM: Excuse me, young miss.

MATT: “Yes? Hi.”

LIAM: I'm sorry. We haven't spoken, but you spoke to my friends. You spoke to my sister. My sister looks very much–

MATT: “I can see the similarity, yes.”

LIAM: I know the news they delivered to you. I am so sorry for your loss. Your father was very brave at the end. Impressively so, and I want you to know that. I've also recovered his body, and I thought to add him to the pyres that this city did outside the city, but I thought maybe you had a family plot or somewhere you'd prefer him to be laid to rest. I'll gladly take him there for you, or take him with you. Whatever you prefer.

MATT: “I'll come with you. I'd like to see him one last time. We have no family plot. We were meager folk. But he spent most of his life working in that field. I think it's only fitting that's where he spends the rest of his days. Show me.” And as you guys begin the building process, she follows you out to the field where she is shown the body of Reginald, and she takes a moment of quiet with him, and cradles his body. But there's a smile on her face, and she says thank you for letting her say goodbye face to face. With your help, you both bring the body back to the farmhouse where you had first met, and you spend the rest of the day interring his body within the hillside that is buttressed against the actual farmland that he tilled.

LIAM: To lose a parent before their time is no easy thing. I'm very sorry for you.

MATT: “It's all right. He did good.”

LIAM: That he did.

MATT: “Let's go ahead and make sure the rest of these folk have more to look forward to, shall we?” She looks at you for a second, and you can see she takes a general scope of your expression and your emotional state, and even for a young girl, she has a stronger insight than you expected, and she puts her arm out and touches your shoulder and says, “You carry too much sadness with you. You've done a lot of good. Let yourself– Let yourself understand and accept the fact that you've done a lot of good.” And she starts walking back towards the town.

LIAM: I linger for a bit.

MATT: All right. Now. You guys begin the process of building this subterranean bunker. You take the first day, scanning through as a group, clearing out whatever creatures lurk beneath the city. Nothing of severe threat lies down there to your power level, and you know, what once was a threat to you guys long ago, within the period of a day, you've cleared out a very, very sizable portion of the sewer system. And because it's been empty for quite a while, it's also not in a very terrible state either. I mean, it still needs to be cleaned, but that's also the specialty of those who can control water and air, let alone reinforcing the stonework that keeps the walls themselves sturdy, strong, able to support any heavy weight on the surface. Within the next couple days, you guys continue the reinforcing process. People begin actually moving their supplies down underground and begin taking bits of furniture and elements that would at least make life down there more comfortable, or at least, a ghost image of some of the life they lived above. Because when you're down there, the comforts are what keep you going. But the people seem, as more and more of it comes together, folks genuinely begin to get a little excited at the idea of having a safe place to live for a while. And you feel like this is doing some good for these folks at the very least. Whenever you guys would like to take your journey–

TALIESIN: I would like to do a couple things just to the room before we do anything other than this to our houses.

MATT: Certainly.

TALIESIN: I would like on one wall to carve the names of every survivor who stayed in the city. And on the other wall start–

SAM: In Draconian.

TALIESIN: In Draconian.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Terrible person. And on the other wall, start carving in the story of–

MARISHA: Those we've lost? That's not what you were going to say.

TALIESIN: What we've done to save the city, and where the story, and where the city came from, and what has happened, and make a place where other people, they can start carving in also the history and everything they need to say about the city, just one of the giant walls, I just want to start filling in with stories of the city.

MATT: Okay, and this catches your attention too, because as pragmatic an individual as Percy is, this is a strangely artistic endeavor of his point, at least the intent behind it.

TALIESIN: You disagree with my opinions.

MARISHA: I don't really agree with immortalizing ourselves in stone–

TALIESIN: It's not about us.

MARISHA: –way before we're even dead–

LAURA: It's not us, Keyleth. It's the history of the town. Perk up, you're driving me crazy.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: How long do you live?

MARISHA: If I complete my journey, it could be upward of a thousand years or more.

TALIESIN: How long do you think I live?

MARISHA: Less than a hundred? If you're lucky.

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: How long?

TALIESIN: (sighs) I am Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.

MARISHA: No kidding.

TALIESIN: My ancestry dates back thousands of years and will continue for thousands more, unless Whitestone falls. I live as long as Whitestone lives. This place is the human soul. This is what we have built with our tiny moments. To lose a place like this, we don't feel it immediately, but it would ruin everyone in small ways.

MARISHA: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a lineage in a name.

TALIESIN: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a lineage in a lifespan.

MARISHA: Not many of us are lucky enough to have a lineage at all.

TALIESIN: Which is why we save everyone we can.

MARISHA: I guess that is one thing we can both agree on.

TALIESIN: This is good we're doing here. This is great good. And it's not about idolizing ourselves; it's about a very long story, which we are, even you, a tiny part of.

MATT: At this moment, you look down and notice that, while you guys were having this talk, a small child has walked up to the wall and where Percy has stopped the carving, the child has picked up a piece of wayward chalk that was on the ground and has begun to draw little stick figures on the wall where you stopped. And in a little bit of the quiet, he stops and looks up over his shoulder at the two of you and smiles, and then just goes back to writing on the wall.

TALIESIN: He'll outlive you, right there.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, you're probably right. Look at him. I guess this little guy is like the moment encapsulated. Hey, bud.

LIAM: (kid voice) That's a octopus!

LAURA: (kid voice) That's a shark. This is a flower.

ASHLEY: (kid voice) This a bear!

TALIESIN: I give Keyleth a little hug.

SAM: Pikey-pants. Do you want to have gone to Kymal? Or do you want to have stayed and helped?

ASHLEY: Didn't you volunteer me to help?

SAM: I volunteered you to come with me to Kymal.

ASHLEY: I'll go with you to Kymal.

TRAVIS: I'll come along to chaperone. No, I'm kidding.

SAM: You can.

PATRICK: Oh, so these two things are happening simultaneously?

MARISHA: Are these two things happening simultaneously?

MATT: This is up to you guys. The Kymal journey–

LAURA: It's a couple days.

SAM: A couple days and back.

MATT: Well, not according to druidic spells.

SAM: Oh yeah. You could bamf us there.

MATT: Which is what I assumed you were referring to about instantaneous travel.

TALIESIN: At some point we should put a teleport circle in this, down here.

LAURA: That would probably be smart.

MATT: Well, you would have to contact an arcane practitioner.

TALIESIN: Somebody else is going to do this. We've got shit to do.

ASHLEY: Let's bamf in.

SAM: Let's go do it.

MARISHA: So we're all going to go?

MATT: If you would like to.

LAURA: I'm going to stay and help build.

MATT: Okay. So, Scanlan, Pike, and Keyleth, you're going with them?

MARISHA: I guess so. You guys are going to need me to get back.

SAM: That's true.

MARISHA: Unless I can get you there, and then you can walk back. Fly there, walk back. Or you can–

TALIESIN: Teleport.

ASHLEY: Can you fly?

SAM: I can fly.

MARISHA: I can mist form us, and then we can get there in how many hours?

MATT: Mist form, you'd get there in under a day.

MARISHA: Teleporting is more fun.

MATT: So what are you doing?

TALIESIN: Teleport them there, and then they can get back on their own.

SAM: Yeah, we can get back on our own. It's two days.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: They just killed a dragon, they'll be fine. What's a bandit going to do?

MARISHA: Have fun, you gnomes! (magic crackle)

MATT: All right. She finds one of the surface trees just outside of the sewage system. As she touches her hands to its bark, the bark cracks and splits open, revealing the doorway behind it, about five foot of internal wood tunnel leads to an opposing side that opens into what immediately is a tent city on the outside walls of Kymal. You guys quickly step through with the moments you have before the portal slams shut.

MARISHA: High five! High five!

SAM: Nope.

MARISHA: Asshole.

MATT: You do get a little tag from Pike right before it shuts.

MARISHA: Yeah! Scanlan, you suck!

(laughter)

MATT: You guys are now standing on the outside of a small cluster of trees outside of Kymal. The mountain range behind it, you can see, there are hundreds and hundreds of people that are displaced in the outside of the city in tents.

PATRICK: Before– because assuming it's been, it sounds like a couple of days, if there's walls and artistry happening, have the wagons gotten back?

MATT: They have, actually, yes.

PATRICK: And if there are those resources, and I know that this trip is happening, I've got to go across and make sure that my people aren't dying of dysentery.

SAM: You're coming?

PATRICK: Yeah.

SAM: Great. (coughing) Third wheel. Trying to get some action here.

(laughter)

MATT: There's a high five tag to Keyleth as Pike jumps through, and before it slams shut, Kerr goes, “Wait!” and jumps through after.

SAM: No, this is great. It's great to have an old dude with us also.

ASHLEY: I do think it's great!

LIAM: Two old dudes.

ASHLEY: There's so much that I wanted to talk to you about, Kerr! I'm so glad that you came along!

SAM: (grumbles)

(laughter)

PATRICK: There's important work to be done here.

ASHLEY: There is very important work to be done, and I feel like we all need to focus on that, and get down to the nitty-gritty of it, you know?

LIAM: I think your nitty-gritty might be different from somebody else's nitty-gritty.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Let's go, let's walk!

SAM: Let's go spread the good word about Westruun, and the great things happening in sewers there.

MATT: All right. You guys begin to make your way from tent to tent, finding individuals, many of which you recognize. Some have recognition of you, and there's a brief little discussion of what's happened, what's transpired, and you tell them of the fall of Umbrasyl, of the herd being sundered and sent westward, and making sure, as Scanlan would, that Vox Machina is responsible.

SAM: Yes. And that it rhymes.

MATT: Indeed. There is no central guidance here. The Margrave Tumner Wann, who runs Kymal, does occasionally come out to check up on people. It's not like they're being kept out of the city forcefully. There's just no room for them. They've taken in as many refugees as they can, and then everyone else on the outside is being helped to the best of their ability, but they're very thin on resources. They've sent trade wagons out to Stillben, even southward, they sent some over into the Verdant Expanse to hopefully trade with Syngorn. There have been people that have been trying to help where they can. However, most of the people outside are still beginning to starve a little bit. A lot of the beasts of burden have been converted into food out of necessity, so there's a lot of empty carts and wagons around. People are in this holding pattern, waiting to hear any news. And the news that you bring does bring hope to the eyes of those that do speak with you.

SAM: At some point in our journey I excuse myself for ten minutes, drink my last shit-scrying potion. Poop out a little loaf.

(laughter)

SAM: Take a tiny bit in it, wrap it in a little bit of parchment, stick it in the secret compartment of the hilt of the sword.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: The scabbard, yeah.

TALIESIN: You should name the sword Number Two.

(laughter)

SAM: I like it.

MATT: The classiest of magic practitioners, Scanlan Shorthalt. You do so. Like spackling a wall, you fill the compartment affixed within the scabbard without issue.

SAM: Thank you.

LIAM: Shove that dingleberry in there.

TALIESIN: Fresh blueberry sherbet.

MATT: Anyway.

SAM: All right, so we've spread the good word. Are people going to travel back, do you think?

MATT: Many folks are now considering returning. Some folks speak of another group of people that are over by the Foramere Basin. They're going to go ahead and send people over there to give word. Some people are asking to see if their family members are okay, and you don't know everyone's name there, but you tell them there are survivors. Most of the people you talk to are intent on returning, because this living situation is only going to be so good for so long.

SAM: I hope we're not sentencing them to death.

TALIESIN: To be fair, the town you're currently in could be gone next week.

SAM: That's true.

TALIESIN: Either way.

PATRICK: I know what's needed back there. I've got access to money. They have wagons and labor. I know most of the people in town, so I'm not going to do it myself, but I know who– honestly, anyone who runs a farm is a better organizer than any modern small business owner.

MATT: This is very true.

PATRICK: So I will talk to a few of these old, capable farmer types and say, okay, here's the money. You know how to bargain. Do your business, and we can get together and we'll head back all together. As soon as you can get everyone together and all that. Also, I'll put somebody in charge of making sure that we're bringing in food, and I'll do a scan around and make sure that people literally aren't dying of dysentery. That they have a clean well and all of that stuff.

MATT: Yeah. I mean, there is disease, as tends to happen when you have people who are displaced and clustered like that in sub-par living conditions, but no major pandemics that are kicking through the people there. The people who are sick are being tended to, and there are people who are medically practiced, or at least herbalists and such, that can help with that. You find a slight group of trustworthy individuals that you know would do well and understand the process, and with the mere inclusion of a few thousand gold, would be more than enough to be able to purchase from the interior of Kymal enough oxen, horses, and other beasts to bring most of the current carts back with you. That was the only real barrier, because Kymal was like, “We can't help you guys for free.” Now there's gold, people are like, “Oh! Well, let's talk.” Charity only goes so far. But you do feel through this trip that you've definitely made an impact, and most of the people, at least over the next week or so, will be outfitted with the proper materials, food for the journey, and be able to make their way back towards Westruun.

SAM: And I will also go to look for Dr. Dra and Kaylie at some point.

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

ASHLEY: I'll go with him.

SAM: 27.

MATT: Okay. As you walk with him, within mere hours, almost like you picked up the scent on a hunt, you see a glimmer of short, dark hair, and you glance over, and sure enough, there is Kaylie, who is currently holding over her shoulder Dr. Dranzel, who is limping alongside her.

SAM: Oh God! Is he okay?

MATT: You can go and ask.

SAM: I'll go and ask!

MATT: They're walking across the street. They haven't noticed you yet.

SAM: Oi! Shorthalt!

MATT: There's a stop, and Kaylie turns her head.

SAM: Hi.

MATT: She drops Dranzel's arm and rushes forward and gives you a hug. And then lets go after a second and pushes away. “Glad to see you survived. That's good.”

SAM: You, too. How's he?

MATT: “He's got a foot infection, nothing too great to look about.” You look down and his left foot is all swollen. He's like, “I've had worse!”

SAM: Pike has healed feet before.

ASHLEY: May I?

MATT: “Please. Be my guest.” As the half-orc grins with his hat still floppy on his head, he presents his horrible foot that gives off a delightful smell of putrescence.

SAM: While she works on him, I'm going to take Kaylie off to the side.

MATT: It's easy enough for you to cleanse elements of disease with minor healing. We'll say for the purposes of this, through a couple of low-level spells you're able to pretty much take care of his foot entirely. He's like, “That's incredible! I mean, if you ever need a traveling troupe, we're always looking for someone to keep us on the up and up! Can you cure hangovers?”

ASHLEY: I can.

MATT: “Well, hang with me, young Pike!” While this is happening, you turn to Kaylie.

SAM: I'm so happy that you are alive and safe, and I came a great distance to do other things, but mainly to see you, and I just wanted to say a few things before I go off to complete my mission. You know, I know I'm not the father that you wanted, but I'm the father that you have, and I'm sorry. I just wanted to tell you that I've been doing a lot of thinking about you, and me, and where I fit in to the life of a family man. Most of my adult life, I've been longing for a gnome to care for, and I met a really good one, and she's here and her name is Pike. And she's beautiful and wonderful, and possibly my soulmate, but I've learned that she's not my family and never will be. You're the gnome that I'm to care for forever, and I'm doing something very stupid now with my friends. We're going to try to save the world. And I didn't know why, but now I know, and if we die doing it, it will be for a good thing, and if we don't, then, well, I'll find you, and I'll be whatever kind of father you need me to be. One who's close and helpful.

MATT: She shushes you. Puts her finger up and shushes you, then steps up and looks at you. The hardness in her face softens, and there is a little bit of tears gathering at the edge of her eyes when she says, “Don't you die. You stay alive.”

SAM: I don't intend to. But you know, I was just inside a–

MATT: “You're. Not. Going. To die. You're going to go do your stupid world-saving mission like you told me, and you're going to come back, and we're going to have a lot to talk about.”

SAM: All right.

MATT: “All right. Can you do that for me?”

SAM: I promise you. I promise you.

MATT: “I'll hold you to that.”

SAM: Well, you do the same, all right? Stay safe. I got you a present. It's a ring. It's a beautiful ring because you're a beautiful girl, and I'd like you to keep it.

MATT: She takes it and looks at it and goes, “Are you sure this wasn't for someone else?”

SAM: No. Never.

MATT: She puts it on.

SAM: And you're also strong, and you'll need this sword. And I give her my Singing Dawn Blade, which has a unique little imperfection at the bottom of it, and I say, this sword has killed a king, which makes it almost worthy enough for you. I hope that it keeps you safe until I can see you again.

MATT: “I don't know what to say. I'll start with thank you. Well, I feel pretty well protected.”

SAM: Okay. Get out of here. If you can, try to make your way to Vasselheim. There's three more dragons, and it'll be a while before I kill them all.

MATT: “I don't know, you've done quite a bit of work in even these past few weeks. Vasselheim. I'll talk it over with the doctor. See what he's interested in. You promised.”

SAM: Gnome's honor.

MATT: She reaches up and grabs your shirt and gives you a kiss on the forehead. And then pushes you away and says, “Get out of my fucking face.” Turns around and walks back towards Dr. Dranzel.

SAM: All right, Pike, I'm done.

ASHLEY: Okay!

MATT: “But she's not done! You're sticking with us, right?”

ASHLEY: I don't think I can.

MATT: “Oh, I know. I'm just– I try.”

ASHLEY: But you guys are headed to– Where are you headed to? Where are you going to go?

MATT: “I don't know! I figure we can– based on what we're hearing around here, folks are heading back to Westruun. They probably need some cheering up on the road. From there, who knows? Actually, I've never been to Marquet before, but I'm thinking–” At this point, Kaylie comes up and goes, “Let's have a talk. I'm feeling a bit of religion coming on. Perhaps we should look further west. Northwest. Vasselheim. Not a lot of music in those parts. They'll be willing to pay for that, I assume.” He's like, “Vasselheim? It's cold there, isn't it? Let's get some furs.” They both start walking away from you guys.

ASHLEY: Before they go, I just reach out my hand and introduce myself to Kaylie. I've heard many lovely things about you.

MATT: She looks at you guardedly and takes your hand. “As I've heard of you. He made a promise.”

ASHLEY: I'll make sure that he keeps it.

MATT: “Thank you.” They keep walking. So, with the money dispersed, the group having a returning sense of hope, with materials, goods, food being redistributed amongst the refugees, it appears there is a direction for the future of Westruun that you've set into place. As you guys gather the rest of your things, Keyleth, you take an evening's rest with the troupe, and the next morning return back to Westruun.

LIAM: Something I wanted to do last night. In all the hubbub that's going on in Westruun, I spend some time to find my sister, and I wanted to stealth up on her.

MATT: Easy enough to do while they're out and about taking their rest with the group in Kymal, while you guys are still helping rebuilding. So yes, go ahead and make a stealth check.

LAURA: I'm just reading these names on this wall!

LIAM: 20.

MATT: What's your passive perception?

LAURA: 21.

SAM: Oh, shit!

MATT: You hear a few very, very faint, very familiar steps come across the stones behind you.

LAURA: I pretend like I don't hear them.

LIAM: Stubby! And I pull her into a big fat hug. Your hair looks like shit, sit down. I start braiding it.

LAURA: I love you too.

LIAM: Elaina would be proud of you. I'm proud of you.

LAURA: That's worth more.

LIAM: Saved my life again.

LAURA: Did I?

LIAM: I crawled out through an arrow hole.

LAURA: (laughs) I saw this little lump squirming. I thought it was probably you. Tiny little you.

LIAM: There's a bit of chicken here.

LAURA: Oh, ow!

LIAM: One day at a time, right?

LAURA: One day at a time. Ow!

LIAM: There.

MATT: All right. As you guys spend the next few days together, forming what is a fairly functional stronghold, for at least the necessary needs of protecting a fair amount of refugees beneath the northern area of Westruun, you feel confident that with the folks that are here and the folks that are coming, there's enough of a community building now where it may not be absolutely necessary for your perpetual oversight and presence, should you have business elsewhere. Anything else you wish to take care of before you continue your journey?

TALIESIN: I have a small package and letter that I want to deliver to Kerr before we leave, but other than that.

SAM: A Kerr package?

TALIESIN: Yes. I was hoping, I was really hoping, someone would say that.

LAURA: I would like to pull Kerr aside and say, you know these people here, they're a bit lost, and they need a leader.

PATRICK: Yeah, they absolutely do. We'll see if we can find them one.

LAURA: I'm looking at one that would be wonderful. Just something to think about.

PATRICK: I've thought about it. But no. But you're very kind. You know, over– How long has this been going on?

MATT: You're going on the better part of two weeks since the initial dragon attack. A little over two weeks, maybe, by now.

PATRICK: One thing that I'll make a point of doing is, while a lot of this is going on and I'm seeing what they're really capable of, in terms of reshaping everything, I'll spend a little bit of time at her shoulder. We'll talk, maybe a little bit, or not. Depending on what she's in the mood for. And the general gist of it is, you know, that it takes a long time, doing the stuff like this. You're making something. And sometimes it doesn't seem to balance out that scale very well, but that's all you can do. And sometimes all you can do is be around for people while they make things, because you can't do everything.

MARISHA: Well, Kerr, I'm certainly glad that you showed up in my life, in this time, when I am building this– whatever the hell this is. Thank you.

TALIESIN: We've made you something, if you will accept it. We pull out a small wooden box that we put together.

MARISHA: I put some Ashari decorative stuff around it.

MATT: So the box itself is wooden, but there is fresh, living ivy curled across it with a few bursts of beautiful red flowers on each side.

MARISHA: Totally. What's the flower of Westruun?

MATT: The flower of Westruun would actually be the white iris, which grows around the western side of it.

MARISHA: Beautiful. It's covered in white irises.

TALIESIN: You sick fuck. You're amazing.

LAURA: Oh, the white iris. No big deal. It's the white iris.

TALIESIN: Talk Westruun to me.

PATRICK: I'll–

SAM: Spring snakes!

TALIESIN: Too soon! Inside is a scrolled parchment, a wooden bracelet, and a metal circlet.

(water bottle falls off the table loudly)

SAM: Spring snakes!

TALIESIN: Trying to have a moment, thank you.

PATRICK: Have I got the first clue?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: The parchment will explain everything and how to use them, but this circlet and this bracelet will help make you a champion that can help protect this city now. And should the need arise, this circlet will give you control of the body of a creature that will help.

MARISHA: His name's Fassbender. And he's got an awesome mustache. And the bracelet's kind of just a bracelet, but I made it. It might be a friendship bracelet.

PATRICK: I'll put that on.

MARISHA: It might say “friendship” in Ashari.

TALIESIN: The circlet will, if anything, if the need ever arises, it will be something that will help protect the city. The scroll will explain the particulars.

MARISHA: If you go up by the funeral pyres, where we set the trap, you'll find him.

TALIESIN: I've already moved him.

MARISHA: Percy will tell you where he is.

TALIESIN: It's in the scroll.

MARISHA: Just read the directions.

MATT: As you read the scroll, glance over it, and you may have seen this entity walking in their vicinity once or twice during the time you met them. It is a 12 foot tall stone golem. It is explained in this that with the use of this circlet, you have control over this creature.

PATRICK: The people of this town are– you know that they're grateful. The problem is, for some of you, they may not be able to say that in a way that you can hear right now. But know that they are, and know that they will be for a long time. And if I have anything to say about it, it will be a very, very long time. So thank you. Thank you for them, and thank you for me.

MARISHA: I give Kerr a big hug.

PATRICK: Free hug!

TALIESIN: I watch awkwardly.

MATT: You do. As you guys break your hug, you look down.

MARISHA: I'm going to miss you, Kerr.

PATRICK: Well.

MARISHA: No, it's okay, you don't have to say it back.

PATRICK: You know where I am. It could be that I will see you before too long. Some of us have more time than others, of course.

MARISHA: I'm sure I will see you at some point later.

MATT: As you step away and turn back to the wall, which is mostly done carving with the names and the story bits you and Percy have been working on during this time, that child has returned, and is still drawing with the chalk, and as you look down at the stick figures, you can see one with antlers, two that are smaller than the others, one that is larger than the rest, burlier, thicker around the chest, one that you can barely see, and one that flies across them all on a broom. And then, at the very end, just finishing, one with funny glasses. The kid stands up and looks at it once and goes, “It's done!” And then runs off.

TALIESIN: Oh, dear.

LAURA: I just take a little piece of chalk and I add Trinket right on the other side.

MATT: Much better drawn than the rest of them.

LAURA: Almost perfect. Almost perfect.

TALIESIN: I can be right every now and then.

MARISHA: I hate you.

MATT: (laughs) So what's your next step?

SAM: We have more Vestiges to get. An airship to steal.

TALIESIN: Yes!

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: Please?

ASHLEY: Vasselheim?

LIAM: I have to go to Vasselheim.

LAURA: Vasselheim is so far away, and the Feywild is so very close.

MARISHA: I have to go to the water tribe of the Ashari.

TRAVIS: The Feywild is close.

LIAM: I have to go to Vasselheim now, and I will go on my own if I have to.

SAM: Why?

TALIESIN: Oh, that's why.

MATT: You have many avenues at your disposal. You have to come up with some central choice here. There's also Whitestone, which you guys haven't been to in a while yet to check in with anybody. There's definitely where all the Vestiges are currently held. There is all those locations. So what is your next step in the journey?

MARISHA: Why do you need to go back to Vasselheim? Right now?

LIAM: I'm not done with her.

ASHLEY: I think I know why he needs to go back to Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Why?

ASHLEY: It's not my place to say.

LIAM: I have to go now. Whether it's just me– Pike, I would be grateful if you would go with me.

LAURA: Well, I'm going with you, too.

LIAM: I don't think that this is somewhere that you can go with me.

LAURA: Vasselheim? I've been there.

LIAM: Yes, you can go to Vasselheim, but what I have to do there, I don't want you to have any part of it. Just this. Just this one thing.

LAURA: Well, then I'll go to Vasselheim and I'll wait outside.

LIAM: I need you.

ASHLEY: I take him and I pull him aside. I know that you've been avoiding me. And I just have to say, I don't know who this– I don't know who or what this Raven Queen is, and I think that's what scares me the most. But I know if you're choosing a life of faith or whatever you want this to be, I'm happy for you.

LIAM: I take her by the hand and I pull her further away. Much further away. Did the others tell you what happened in the tomb? In the sunken tomb?

ASHLEY: I'm getting bits and pieces.

LIAM: I have been avoiding you. Percival– There was a trap, and Vex'ahlia– I almost lost Vex'ahlia, and a woman appeared. Not a woman. A god appeared. She appeared, and I did something. I tried to save my sister. I did something stupid. I tried to bargain. I didn't even fucking want the armor that I'm wearing right now! I didn't want it. I don't think I've ever told you how much I admire you.

ASHLEY: Vax.

LIAM: I always have. You have a kindness about you that comes with such ease and honesty. You have always carried a light. Her light. I think, you know, I admire everyone in our band of misfit toys, but you most of all, and when you left, we all noticed its absence. All of us. I think I wanted to find it again for myself. Hers. Your benefactor. I felt Her, and I told myself that when you came back, I was going to come to you and I was going to learn from you, and follow you and follow Her. As soon as you came back. And like so many things that I reach for in this life, it slipped through my fingers, and I've gone and painted myself into a corner. I can't anymore. And I think when I saw you, it was just a reminder of what I lost. I'm sorry for avoiding you.

ASHLEY: Don't be sorry. I understand now. And I don't think that you're lost in any way. I think if you felt in some way that this is who you've needed to follow, then follow her.

LIAM: Well, the bottom line is I couldn't walk away if I wanted to, because I know that I would lose my sister. But I don't want to anymore. We've all been close to death, all of us, and now I'm just a little bit closer. It took me a bit, but maybe we're not meant to be happy. I don't know.

ASHLEY: I don't think that's true.

LIAM: Well, I don't know. But I know that I can be of use.

ASHLEY: You can be, and you are of use. I'm not the type of person who would ever say that you have to choose and follow who I follow, but I will tell you now that if the Raven Queen fucks with you, or hurts you, or doesn't change you for the better, then she's going to have to deal with me, and we're going to have a problem. But as of right now, I love you, Vax. It is going to be fine, and I am here for you, no matter what, and you can talk to me any time. Don't be ashamed or embarrassed.

LIAM: I was. I'm doing better.

ASHLEY: Okay. Don't be ashamed. And turn that frown upside down.

LIAM: It would help if you stayed around.

ASHLEY: I will do my best. Sometimes people call, and sometimes I just have to go to do work.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: But maybe you'll discover that with the Raven Queen. Maybe she'll take you to jobs and you just have to go.

SAM: Prime Time.

ASHLEY: But I adore you. Okay?

LIAM: I was all kinds of fucked up a couple of weeks ago.

ASHLEY: Well, you are all kinds of fucked up all the time, and that's why we love you. We're all all kinds of fucked up, and that's why we all are together.

SAM: I walk by, eating chicken and wearing no pants.

ASHLEY: See? And I give him a slap on his bare ass as he walks by. You okay? You will be.

LIAM: Ish.

ASHLEY: Ish. That's all we can be, is ish. Okay?

LIAM: Okay.

ASHLEY: Okay.

SAM: To the Feywild!

MATT: To where?

SAM: He needs a destination.

MATT: What is your next plan of action?

LIAM: I'm going to Vasselheim.

SAM: God damn it. To Vasselheim!

LAURA: To Vasselheim, then.

TALIESIN: If emo elf is going to Vasselheim, we're going to Vasselheim.

LIAM: You can go. I can catch up.

TRAVIS: You can't go by yourself.

SAM: Well, we have the rocks. We could send a rock with him.

LAURA: That's fucking stupid. I'm going. I wouldn't let him go to Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: We're all going to Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: I have things I can do in Vasselheim.

LIAM: It's the only bastion of standing civilization left.

SAM: Is Feywild on the way?

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: No, it's in the opposite direction. It's south of here.

MATT: The Feywild is ever-present, technically. It's another plane.

SAM: Oh, let's go on the way. It's like on the way, practically.

LAURA: No, we know an entrance to the Feywild in the Frostweald.

MATT: There are many doors to the Feywild throughout the world. You just only know one.

SAM: Let's just let Vax go by himself.

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: No, there's actually things that can be done in Vasselheim.

MARISHA: I pull Vax aside.

TRAVIS: Christ.

LIAM: Hey, you had two hours to beat the shit out of a goliath! Sit tight, buddy.

SAM: I pull Kerr aside.

LAURA: I pull Grog aside.

TALIESIN: I walk away.

LIAM: Catch phrase! Catch phrase! Meme! Tweet tweet tweet!

MATT: All right, so. As Keyleth pulls you aside.

MARISHA: Do you want to go alone? Do you want to go by yourself? Because if you want to go by yourself, say something, and we'll let you go. If you think this is something you need to do by yourself.

LIAM: I'm actually scared shitless, and I would like Pike and you to go with me. I would like my sister not to go anywhere near her. That's what I would like, and that's it. You and Pike.

MARISHA: Then say something.

LIAM: I did.

MARISHA: No, you didn't.

LIAM: Hey, I'd like to go to Vasselheim, Pike. Keyleth, can you open up a hole in a tree? We can go quick. Everyone can go to Vasselheim. There's just a specific place in Vasselheim that I need to go. And I love you, but I just don't want you to be a part of it. You either hang out with Grog, or stay outside, okay?

LAURA: Fine.

LIAM: Okay.

SAM: To Vasselheim!

MARISHA: To Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: To outside a building in Vasselheim.

MATT: Indeed.

MARISHA: To a far wooded area where magic is permissible, outside of Vasselheim.

MATT: Divine magic is permissible. The essence of pulling magic beyond the powers. It's the arcane practitioning that is frowned upon. It's not illegal. It's just generally frowned upon.

TALIESIN: It's rude.

MATT: But yes, as you step back to the surface beyond the subterranean personnel bunker that is now the sewage system of Westruun, you find yourself at a nearby tree. The doorway opens, and you all dart through into the cold, snow-dappled, cobbled streets of Vasselheim. And that's where we'll end tonight's game. Picking up next week, at that moment. Thank you guys so much, that was a great session! Dude, Patrick, thank you so much for joining us!

MARISHA: Patrick, my new best friend!

LAURA: Thanks, Kerr Bear!

PATRICK: Thanks so much for having me. I've been a fan for a long time. It was a real treat.

MATT: Dude, our pleasure, man. Thanks for coming.

ASHLEY: As we have been of you.

MARISHA: Kerr Bear Share!

LAURA: And thanks, Loot Crate!

MATT: And thanks Loot Crate, for deciding to sponsor us again! And thank you guys for being so supportive of us having sponsors now! It's really, really helpful.

TRAVIS: Use the link! Show your Critter power!

MARISHA: It makes us feel like we're a grown up show now.

TALIESIN: We're a real Twitch stream!

MARISHA: We're a real Twitch stream with sponsors!

PATRICK: Is it gauche if I mention a thing that's going on?

MATT: Yes, please, go for it!

SAM: What are you, a sellout? Come on, man.

PATRICK: There's a subtle difference between selling and selling out.

MATT: Exactly. You're fine.

PATRICK: And I'm constantly pushing that border. I run a charity called World Builders, and we raise money to support various charities. We rally the geek community, and right now we're running our midseason fundraiser. It's an Indiegogo with a bunch of cool things that geeks might like. We teamed up with Rat Queens. We're doing a T-shirt for them. If you're a fan of the Dresden Files, we've got a T-shirt based on Harry Dresden and those books. We've got a T-shirt based on my books. We've got, literally, there's 40 items there, a bunch of different cool geekery of various sorts. For those of you that have read The Slow Regard of Silent Things, they pulled off a foxen night light. It looks beautiful. I should've brought the prototype so I could show it to you. I should've brought the prototype, but it turned out so good.

LAURA: I'm going to look it up.

PATRICK: The thing is, it only lasts for four more days. This is just a weeklong fundraiser. You can get coffee, you can get hoodies, you can get a bunch of these things, and all the money goes to charity. If you're interested, swing on by and take a peek at what we've got. If there's any of my people in the Twitch stream, which I'm guessing there are, you can throw a link up there so other people can see it.

TALIESIN: What's that web address again?

PATRICK: If you search on worldbuilders.org, that's our main web page. This fundraiser in particular is happening on Indiegogo.

LAURA: Plus there's a link in your Twitter account, right?

PATRICK: Yeah, I've been talking about it in my Twitter account, and I do occasionally Twitch stream, too, and I throw up the link there as well.

MATT: And what is your Twitter account, just so folks know?

PATRICK: @patrickrothfuss, just all together.

MATT: Perfect. Fantastic. Thank you guys again, a great session tonight, and yeah. I guess we'll see you guys in a week. Until then, we ask ourselves: Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys! 

MATT: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors battle traffic from E3 to get here in time to roll dice and play Dungeons & Dragons.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we do.

SAM: Video games!

MATT: It has all the stuff.

MARISHA: All the video games.

MATT: Thank you for being patient and waiting for us with a couple of tech issues and just generally battling living in Los Angeles and having a car. Anyway, before we kick the night off, real fast, I just want to take a moment to acknowledge - and I feel it's important to acknowledge there's been a lot of difficulty and a lot of terrible things happening in the world and in our country in particular this past week or so. And us at Critical Role and this community around, I'm sure many of you agree, we just wanted to take a moment to express that we stand with the families of those that are currently dealing with this difficulty, who have lost those, and stand with the community that this was aimed at. And everybody who has come together as part of this, we are in full support of this whole wonderful gathering of people in light of this darkness, and I think it's not just myself when I say that everything this community stands for is to perpetually spread love, community, positivity, acceptance, and everything in between. So we just wanted to bring that to you guys and let you know that we're thinking about you all out there. And we have a wonderful community of Critters out there as well. If anyone needs any help, assistance, or guidance, or even just a happy word to pick them up during this rough time, we're all there for you. So, anyway. (blows kiss, sighs) Then, to kick off this evening of announcements and such, we are kicking into the second day of our renewed Loot Crate sponsorship.

(all cheer)

MATT: We wanted to reinforce that their current theme is Dystopia, which is an awesome theme box that deals with all sorts of things of post-apocalypse and dystopian-type films, games, the whole thing. They have Fallout, RoboCop, BioShock, a whole bunch of really, really cool things, so if you guys want to go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole, you can go ahead and get $3 off your subscription and get a whole bunch of that cool stuff. We also have the Dystopia DX, which is their big collector's box -

TRAVIS: So awesome.

MATT: which we showed last week.

LAURA: Oh, is that what this one was from?

MARISHA: Yeah, your sweet shirt.

ASHLEY: I love that shirt.

LAURA: Yeah, Skeletor!

MATT: (laughs) That's pretty slick. If you guys have a chance to check it out, go see if it's something you'd be interested in, and make sure you put in the criticalrole - all one word - code to go ahead and get your subscription discount, which is fantastic.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: We're happy to present that (funny accent) and are happy that they like our show enough to come and sponsor, which is awesome. (normal voice) So check that out. You have until the 19th at 9pm Pacific to subscribe and receive the Dystopia theme, otherwise it switches over to the next theme, so if you're gonna get under the wire for that one, (funny accent) do it soon. It's like a - yeah! We have a -

TRAVIS: We're giving out crates in a chat room thing, don't we?

MATT: You think so?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Giving out crates?

LAURA: We are?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Are we?

MARISHA: Are we?

LAURA: (gasps) That's exciting!

ASHLEY: It's going to be one at the break? It's going to be a giveaway at the break?

MATT: Oh, snap.

ASHLEY: I'm just going to start making stuff up.

TRAVIS: Is that - did you just point and -

ASHLEY: Point, shoot.

SAM: Loot Crate ha donated two Loot Crate DX boxes to give away to you. We will be doing this at the break and at the end of the night, random in chat. You must be active! Stay tuned for that! Exclamation point!

MARISHA: I'm so glad someone wrote that down for us!

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm so glad they wrote out the exclamation point.

TRAVIS: I'm in the chat right now.

LAURA: (laughing) Yeah.

TRAVIS: Totally.

SAM: Remind you, gotta stay active.

MARISHA: You're active? Stay active.

MATT: Stay active, Travis. In the game! (snaps fingers) Eyes up here, Grog.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right, so the next couple of things we want to mention to you guys real fast: We have, it started up today, a Critical Role t-shirt contest that went up.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: We're doing this with Woobox. The link should be in the chat room for you guys to check out, but we have currently, until June 24th at midnight, the cut-off date, but if anyone wants to submit any designs, all the rules for the contest are there. When all those designs have been submitted, we ourselves, the cast of Critical Role, are going to pore through and pick our favorite.

LAURA: Top three.

MATT: Top three?

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: Top three faves.

MATT: (funny accent) And we will have designs incoming forward for official Critical Role shirt stuffs, which is nice.

TRAVIS: (similar accent) Critter.

LAURA: (similar accent) Critter, it's a Critter shirt.

MARISHA: Critter shirt.

TRAVIS: (similar accent) Critter community t-shirt.

SAM: Are they all going to be like Boaty McBoatface or something?

(all laugh)

LAURA: What's Boaty McBoatface?

MATT: We will select -

SAM: Boaty McBoatface is like an online “name our boat.”

(all say Boaty McBoatface)

MATT: Say Boaty McBoatface so we can get into this, and I'll be happy.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Do your worst. Show us your best. Yes!

MARISHA: All right, who did we send to Alaska? Who was that? Was that Flo Rida?

MATT: No. Oh, Alaska? That was… Redman. Bulldog.

MARISHA: Bulldog!

TALIESIN: Pitbull.

MARISHA: Pitbull! Pitbull!

MATT: I mess up his name intentionally all the time.

TRAVIS: Bullman?

TALIESIN: (groans)

MARISHA: (laughing) Pitbull.

ASHLEY: Bulldog. Shih tzu.

MARISHA: He played in, like, a Wal-Mart in Anchorage.

LAURA: But it was like a joke for publicity, right?

MATT: He went ahead and did it! The online poll for his next performance, the internet trolled him and made it to this far Alaska performance.

MARISHA: A Wal-Mart in Anchorage, or something like that.

LAURA: And he did it

MATT: And he did it! I was like, “respect to you, man. Well done.”

MARISHA: Yeah, respect. Like 50 people showed up.

LAURA: That's awesome!

MARISHA: And got a private -

LAURA: Concert.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: You know what, I've done a con in Anchorage. It's nice. I like it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, man. Anchorage moose.

TALIESIN: They've got moose.

LAURA: Can we talk about our next thing because I'm so excited about it.

SAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: What's the next thing?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Do we get to show it, or no?

LAURA: YES.

TALIESIN: Oh, yes, that!

LIAM: (frustrated noises)

LAURA: Wait, okay, so Liam gets to say it.

MATT: So, you are technically DM.

LIAM: So some of you might remember us talking about Joe Madureira and his Kickstarter game, Darksiders Night War, which he successfully Kickstarted. We talked about it a bunch on this show -

MATT: Battle War, you mean?

LIAM: Hm?

MATT: Darksiders was -

LIAM: Excuse me. Battle Chasers.

LAURA: Battle Chasers.

LIAM: Excuse me, I was going to be here for a half hour and settle down and go over my talking points. Battle Chasers.

SAM: You're wearing the shirt.

LIAM: Battle Chasers. I'm wearing the damn shirt.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Sorry. Hour and a half in L.A. traffic. Anyway. He successfully Kickstarted, they're working on it, I just saw him at E3, I saw him a couple of days ago. If you don't know Joe's work, he is a comic book artist rock star. He has worked on X-men, he's worked on Avenging Spider-Man, Inhumans, Ultimates 3, and his own comic, Battle Chasers, which I fell in love with when I was a teenager. He does gorgeous artwork. He's only gotten better with time.

SAM: Pitbull Chasers.

MARISHA: (laughs)

LIAM: Pitbull Chasers, Flo Rida, and Joe collaborating together. Anyway, that game's coming out. You should check it out, this is it. But I bring that up because while Joe is a busy, busy guy, he somehow found the time - I'm so excited - to create an exclusive art piece for Critical Role.

ASHLEY: Can we bring it in?

MARISHA: So gorgeous.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.

(noises of awe)

LIAM: Look at that business. So right now -

LAURA: It's blocking my face, but I want to see it.

MARISHA: Well, we've seen it tiny.

LIAM: Guys, if you go over to the Geek & Sundry shop right now, this is on pre-order, so - I'm going over my script - signed versions of this will be available for pre-order for two weeks only.

TRAVIS: Yeah, limited two-week run, y'all. Get it.

LIAM: Two-week pre-order. And then unsigned for three weeks.

LAURA: Three weeks.

LIAM: So this is now or never.

ASHLEY: It's so badass!

MARISHA: Now or never and then it goes away forever.

LAURA: Forever!

LIAM: And it's too gorgeous, too. Oh my lord.

MARISHA: It's so gorgeous.

ASHLEY: I wonder if we should show a close-up or something.

LAURA: So yeah, keep in mind when you order it on pre-order that you have to wait for it to be fully pre-ordered before we can send it out. I don't know if that was on camera because I'm above the poster.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: It's so sexy.

MARISHA: You're so sexy.

LIAM: It's all right. Vex is on the paper, so.

LAURA: That's right.

MARISHA: Pike in that three-point landing!

LAURA: Oh no, don't take it away.

ASHLEY: (singing) Goodbye, my love!

TRAVIS: There's an image on the website, right?

MARISHA: And they are movie-poster size. They are that size.

LAURA: Yeah, they're that full-on -

LIAM: They're 24 x 36. Gorgeous.

MARISHA: 24 x 36.

SAM: And there's a place to click on the page where you are right now watching this.

MATT: Those are my eyes. I'm on a poster!

MARISHA: If you scroll down, there'll be a button.

LIAM: Scroll down to the bottom of the page, there's a button for that.

MARISHA: Scroll down, there's a button.

LIAM: Thank you, Joe. Thank you. It's gorgeous.

LAURA AND MARISHA: Thank you, Joe!

MATT: Thank you, Joe. It's amazing.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Joe!

TALIESIN: That's amazing.

LAURA: It's beautiful.

ASHLEY: I love it so much.

MATT: It is getting framed and becoming a centerpiece of our home.

LIAM: And Battle Chasers Night War. You should check it out today.

(all laugh)

MATT: All righty.

SAM: Signed, by the way, signed by us, not by the artist.

LIAM: Us. By us.

MARISHA: Yeah, by us.

TALIESIN: You could find him. Hunt him down if you wanted to.

MARISHA: Yes. (laughs)

MATT: (in a funny accent) Taliesin, you are going to be somewhere this weekend, are you not?

TALIESIN: Oh, god, I am. As soon as we're done here, I go home and pack and get on an airplane. I will be at Amazing Comic Con in Vegas all weekend.

TRAVIS: You bastard.

TALIESIN: Yeah. Sleep is never gonna happen.

LAURA, ASHLEY, AND MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: Never.

ASHLEY: What is that.

TRAVIS: Sleep.

TALIESIN: You can meet me, slightly deranged, all weekend at Amazing Comic Con with a bunch of other Street Fighter kids, and it's going to be a great time, and be right next to the Library Bards. Bonnie Gordon, yeah yeah.

MATT: Yes, yes.

TALIESIN: Yeah, be hanging with them.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah, Library Bards. Nice.

MATT: Glorious.

TALIESIN: Good times.

MATT: And if I recall, there was also a recent announcement of a cool Telltale game that went up this week.

LAURA: Oh, man! Batman the Telltale series!

TRAVIS: It's sweet. They announced the Batman cast and Laura is playing Catwoman Selina Kyle.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, man.

TRAVIS: I play District Attorney

LAURA AND TRAVIS: Harvey Dent.

ASHLEY: Ohhh.

LAURA: It's pretty exciting.

TRAVIS: We're gonna turn Gotham around.

LAURA: And at E3 today, we went and checked out the demo and it's pretty frickin' cool.

ASHLEY: It's so good. I saw it yesterday and today because I just couldn't not watch it again.

TRAVIS: It's gonna be fun.

MATT: All righty, anyone else have anything they want to talk about? (southern drawl) Or shall we dive into the rest of tonight's story?

TRAVIS: Let's dive into the story.

MARISHA: Let's dive.

MATT: (southern drawl) All righty. Let's go ahead and bring it down as we all prepare ourselves to begin to kick off tonight's episode of Critical Role.

(spooky ethereal music)

(heavy breathing)

(roaring)

(dramatic music)

(gun firing)

(dramatic music)

(crackling flames)
Part I

MATT: Welcome back. So, picking up where we last left off last week. Vox Machina, the growing troop of heroic misfits, having recently felled their first recent member of the Chroma Conclave, Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, as well as destroying the current incursion of the Herd of Storms in the city of Westruun. You met with the remaining people of the town and began to decide a plan for its continued existence and the recovery of those that were displaced in these recent conflicts. Part of this process was meeting an individual named Kerrek, who was a blacksmith who had been in the town for a while, who unwittingly became part of this discussion -

MARISHA: My best friend.

MATT: (laughs) You - Grog had spoken with the remnants of the Herd of Storms that had essentially been disbanding from the name and moving west to join with the Rivermaw, which had stepped off from the herd not too long ago. You guys had a hot springs episode in the mansion.

SAM: (laughs)

MATT: Scanlan, you had made your way back to Kymal, in which you, along with the aid of a few of your friends, figured out a plan in which the people who had been displaced could eventually return to Westruun, and also found Kaylie and spoke with her, had your somewhat-tearful reunion there. You guys began to construct a subterranean portion of Westruun that would be protected from future dragon incursion, renovating and restructuring within the sewer system beneath the city. After this process was complete, you decided the next level of your trek, the next direction you would travel would be towards the far western, northwestern continent of Othanzia. Specifically, the city of Vasselheim that you know all so well. All of you guys stepping through a tree portal presented by Keyleth, you immediately step out into the snowy exterior of what seems like the outside of the Quad Roads in Vasselheim. And now, we see what your next plan of action is. What do you guys want to do?

SAM: (sighs) Light a fire.

LAURA: What time is it? (laughs)

MARISHA: Yeah, what time is it?

MATT: It's hard to tell right now with the cloud cover so thick in the sky, but you envision at this point in time, it's probably mid-afternoon or so. The general omniscient glow through the clouds, kind of diffused light, but based on the time that you - where you were and how far you traveled, you gather it's probably early to mid-afternoon.

SAM: Well, you're the one who brought us here, Vax. Where would you like to go?

LIAM: I need to go to the temple of the Raven Queen.

SAM: We'll come with you.

LAURA: Let's go.

TALIESIN: I know where that is.

LIAM: I know that you all have a lot of errands to do. I don't need everyone to come.

TRAVIS: We have a lot of errands to do?

LIAM: I thought so. You mentioned…

LAURA: My only errand is to keep my eyes on you.

TALIESIN: I have some errands, if that makes anybody feel better. I have some errands to run.

TRAVIS: Do you need any help with your errands?

TALIESIN: Sure. Actually, yes. I would love some help with my errands.

LAURA: Don't let him shop, Percy. Do not let him shop.

TALIESIN: That shouldn't be a problem.

TRAVIS: I don't know what that means, but I'm sure I take great offense.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: That's - you're getting smarter.

TRAVIS: How effin' dare you.

LAURA: That eagle form really made a difference.

LIAM: It rubbed off, yeah.

TRAVIS: I spit out a feather. (pthh) No, I don't. Yeah, a loogie.

MATT: So. Who's off to where?

LAURA: Where is this Raven Queen's temple?

LIAM: (sighs) I - we've not been here many times. Are we surrounded by people? Are there people walking about?

MATT: There actually - it is quite a busy time in the afternoon. There is actually a bit of hustle and bustle. Looking around, just a quick glance at your vicinity in Vasselheim, you can see a lot of the bastions are out in force. Many of them are in process of helping construct what looks like green forest dragon-headed ballista. Some of the ones you had seen towards the outside wall of the city; there are more being installed upon the inner walls, and the ones in the distance appear to be under some form of construction.

TALIESIN: We have rooms. Why don't we go claim our rooms and I'm sure they can lead us to everywhere we need to go.

LIAM: That makes sense.

MARISHA: Want to go check in at the Slayer's Take?

TALIESIN: And we can meet back there when everything is done.

MARISHA: All right.

LAURA: Do you need to check in at your temple, or should we pretend you're not here so they don't try to make you stay?

MARISHA: Yes.

ASHLEY: Let's just pretend for a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay.

ASHLEY: And then I'll check in later. There's no rush to get there. At least, that I know of right now.

SAM: God will wait for a long time.

TRAVIS: All right. To the Slayer's Take, then?

LAURA: Let's do it.

TALIESIN: To the Slayer's Take.

MATT: All right. You guys continue further south into the Quad Roads until eventually you find yourselves at the Slayer's Take guildhall. The door is partially ajar already. It appears that somebody had left it open, but it is warm on the inside. You can see a fireplace hearth on the far back and to the right is already kind of filling the area with this subtle musty smoke smell, and the crackling of wood in the distance is a very welcoming sensation from the cold exterior of the city streets. As you enter, you do not see anybody at the front desk at the moment, but you do see a few other random individuals of the guild that have taken certain tables. Some are eating, and some are in the process of playing cards or passing the time. It seems to be a relatively casual day here at the Slayer's Take. But your rooms are still available, best as you need. Anything you specifically require in this place?

LAURA: Can I just grab one of the people that are here and ask him, "What's all the hustle about outside? I see them installing more."

MATT: Okay. You go ahead and - one of the guys closest to you, you've met him briefly in passing, his name is Loran. He has a completely bald head with a single stripe tattoo down the center. He has a very, very pointed long chin. Human, but he's probably been busted in the face a few times. You can see there's just scars and what appears to be bone structure that may have been reformed at times due to blunt trauma. But he's just sitting there, sharpening his weapons, just kind of doing good upon his own self, being prepared for anything. But as you come over to ask him the question, he looks up to you and goes, "Word's gone around the town recently that there's some wandering dragon horde tearing through Tal'Dorei, so they're just upping security around these places, just in case.

LAURA: Smart.

MATT: "I hope so. Hope they make their way here."

LAURA: Nobody's sighted the dragons, though, over here?

MATT: "Not to my knowledge, but (chuckles) I'd love to get my hands on some of them scales, eh? (blade scrapes)"

MARISHA: What's your name? What's your name?

MATT: "Loran."

MARISHA: What?

SAM: What?

MARISHA: Oran? What?

LAURA: Loran?

MATT: "Loran."

MARISHA: Loran.

MATT: Because… that's what I remember.

LAURA AND SAM: (laugh)

LIAM: Thought so.

(all laugh)

LIAM: It took over fifty episodes for that to happen.

LAURA: I'm sorry, what was the question?

MATT: Well, when you don't take notes when I give you a character's name originally, and they come back around and it's weird when you suddenly take damage and your character starts hemorrhaging.

LAURA: Oh no. Loran. Loran. Loran was his name.

LIAM: I was just eating an apple. Why am I dying?

MATT: (laughs)

TRAVIS: Veiled threat.

ASHLEY: I'm just sitting by the fire, so.

LAURA: Slayer's Take.

TALIESIN: (laughs)

MARISHA: So this is - we have seen this guy before?

MATT: Some of you may have seen him in passing. You haven't really had a conversation with him. He just exists within the guild. There's many members that you've come across in the past.

MARISHA: Sure, that exist.

TRAVIS: Probably a dragon.

LAURA: Pointy chin. Got it.

ASHLEY: Stripe on his head.

TRAVIS: Nothing wrong with those.

LIAM: How are the people doing? Is there a sense of worry, or do you guys feel pretty secure?

MATT: "As far as this town is concerned, it takes a lot more than a couple dragons to drop these walls. It's the reason it's been around for a long time, and I'd like to see them try."

MARISHA: Have you ever encountered a dragon personally, Loran?

MATT: "I mean, I've come across a few small ilk in my days, but -"

MARISHA: Uh-huh. Sure. Yeah. Yep.

SAM: (laughs) Are you hazing Loran?

MARISHA: Nope. Nope.

LAURA: Keyleth is proud of herself because we've just killed our third, actually.

MATT: "Oh, that's fantastic. I love to hear it. You half-elves are a humble bunch."

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Fire! Fire! Put the flames out!

MARISHA: Yeah, Team Half-Elf. Yeah!

TRAVIS: Such a good burn.

LAURA: Liam, I don't want to ask Matt this, but the chick that runs the Slayer's Take, her name's Vanessa?

LIAM: Vanessa.

ALL: Vanessa.

SAM: Cyndrian.

LIAM: And her husband Merkin.

SAM: Mertin.

TRAVIS: Most amazing name.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Are Vanessa and Merkin around?

SAM: Mertin.

LAURA: Mertin.

LIAM: Mertin. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Nope, Merkin from now on.

SAM: Merkin is a different thing.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah, a very different thing. I guess it depends on if he shaved recently. He looks toward the back room, where her main office is, and he goes, "You're welcome to go ahead and knock on the door if you're feeling frisky."

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: Should we try to sell Vanessa some of our dragon bits?

TRAVIS: We should sell to, like, a merchant?

LAURA: Well, Vanessa - they tend to be in the -

TALIESIN: They may have a buyer.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Love that you asked me that question.

LAURA: Let's go see - I know, right? What was I thinking?

TRAVIS: I don't know. (laughs)

TALIESIN: Keep a few of the scales, obviously.

TRAVIS: We can tell what my place in the party is.

LAURA: Of course. Grog, come with me.

MARISHA: Oh, wait, keep the teeth. Keep enough teeth for us.

TALIESIN: We'll talk about the cold bag for now and see if there's anything else they want to talk about.

MARISHA: I have an idea for teeth.

LAURA: Can I go find Vanessa?

MATT: You go and knock on the door. (knocks) There's a brief pause. Knock again. (knocks)

LAURA: (sing-song) Vanessa? Vox Machina here - oh, hi.

MATT: The door (fwoosh) swings open. You have to duck backwards. It (thump) slams onto the other side of the wall there, knocking a few knick-knacks that were on a nearby shelf over. And Vanessa swings out. "What? Who's calling - ah. It has been some time. How nice of you to come and visit. May I… be of service to you, or is this a business call?

LAURA: Oh, well, we were wondering if we could be of service to you. We happen to have acquired a great many dragon bits and we thought you might be in need of buying them for your sellers - buyers. Your people.

SAM: Fencing them.

LAURA: Fence - you know.

TALIESIN: I really thought you'd be better at this.

MATT: "There is no fencing."

LAURA: No fencing, no. No no no, you're -

MATT: "We run a legitimate business."

LAURA: Legal buyers.

MATT: "Good. As was I hoping to hear this. Let me check my ledger." She turns around and goes back to her desk. Her tail flicks behind her as she steps over to her table, leans over. "(muttering) Ah!" Pulls one of the books. (blows) Starts thumbing through it. "(more muttering) (louder) What color dragon?"

LAURA: Black.

MATT: "Hmm. Chromatic."

SAM: (quietly) Ancient.

LAURA: Ancient black dragon.

LIAM: Weathered.

MARISHA: Yeah, you might have heard about him. Umbrasyl… (chuckles)

SAM: You're super salty today.

TRAVIS: Tone it down like two notches.

LAURA: Gaining confidence, our druid.

MATT: "There is currently no contract for a black dragon. I do have one up for a bronze or perhaps a white, but…"

LAURA: Oh, white! Do we have any white bits left?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: We should have white from back in the day.

LAURA: What, do you want scales or…

MATT: "Specifically hide. If there is white dragonhide…"

TRAVIS: We have 60 pounds of -

LAURA: Didn't we - that was the dragon we killed for you before, because we didn't bring the -

TALIESIN: No, it was before that one.

LAURA: No, but we killed one with Zahra. We killed a white dragon.

MARISHA: Yeah, they killed a white dragon.

MATT: "That was for a different contract. This is for a newer one I came by."

LAURA: We've killed four dragons?! Four fucking dragons. Go us.

MARISHA: Yes, we have. Yes. Four dragons.

TRAVIS: Excuse us while we reminisce, apparently.

MATT: "(deadpan) Yes, it is amazing. The things you've accomplished. I am blown away. But in light of your capabilities, I do not require anything black dragon. However, if a contract comes in, I know who to call. Hold onto that, because that would save you a trip."

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: We do have some white scales left over, don't we?

LAURA: Yes, I think so.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we do. We have like 60 pounds of scales.

MATT: "Is that hide or scales?"

TRAVIS: Just scales. No hide, unfortunately.

MATT: "Hm. Well, I could definitely do a bit of business for you there. The hide would fetch more, but - 60 pounds, you said?"

TRAVIS: Yeah. 64, to be exact.

LAURA: Of white dragon scales.

MATT: "64 of white dragon scales, okay. I would be willing to continue at least part of this contract for this applicant for… let's say… 4,500 gold pieces."

LAURA: 5,000 gold pieces, I think is a fair price.

MATT: "This is not about bartering. This is what the contract says, my dear. This is beyond a situation of conversation. The paperwork is already signed."

LAURA: What if we gave you less dragon scales? Would you have said less money?

SAM: That's typically how it works.

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: (laugh)

MATT: "Vex'ahlia. My dear. My delightful little dragon-hating half-elf. We've been good to you. We've done many great things for you. You've done great things for us. This is a fantastic arrangement." (boof) She slams the book shut and sets it down. "But you have signed on with us, and the deal is to fulfill contracts as they are signed, as they are written, as they are agreed upon by the person. If you wish not to accept this contract, we can just wait until somebody else picks it up and goes out and fulfills this need at the price at which they are requesting for this. You're welcome to keep the scales."

LAURA: I think we'll keep them and we'll sell them to other vendors, then.

SAM: Haven't we had them for years?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I have a thing I'm thinking about.

MATT: "See? Then it's easy for you to get rid of them. If they've been a problem for you, then I'm sure this would be easy.

SAM: Where are we going to sell these? The world's on fire!

MARISHA: Okay, hang on, we know it's here. We know it's here. There aren't that many white dragons walking around -

TALIESIN: Certainly not anymore.

MARISHA: Certainly not anymore. We know it's here.

LIAM: It's time to sell them.

MARISHA: Why don't we sleep on it. Think about it. If we're ever in a pinch for money, we can come back.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Sounds good.

ASHLEY: Mm-hm.

MATT: "Very well."

LAURA: Vanessa, you're so kind.

TRAVIS: Besides, I've been working on that dragon immunity potion.

MATT: "As ever."

LAURA: I'm so sorry.

MATT: "That is all right. Goodbye." And she shoos you out.

MARISHA: Oh, wait, Vanessa. Wait wait wait wait.

MATT: "Yes, other female half-elf?"

MARISHA: That's me. Where's the temple of the Raven Queen?

MATT: "Oh, you're looking for the Duskmeadow. Raven's Crest. It is -" And she points loosely outward, kind of southeast of the direction of the Slayer's Take guildhall. "It's kind of hard to miss. It's giant, black, ominous. (chuckles) You'll see it." And she kind of bops your nose a little bit with her finger. "Now, please. Out of my office. I have work to get done."

LAURA: Thank you, Vanessa.

MARISHA: Okay, bye.

SAM: Thank you. Kord's strength to you.

MATT: "That does nothing for me." (boof) Slams the door shut.

LAURA: They were worth a lot more than what she was offering, just for the record. They are worth so much more.

SAM: To whom? We haven't ever sold them or come across anyone who wanted them before.

TALIESIN: This is no reason to get rid of something for wholesale.

LAURA: Well, we've not really tried. That doesn't mean we should just give them away.

SAM: We also are almost full in our Bag of Holding, might I remind you, and 64 pounds would free up quite some -

LAURA: It's not 64 pounds.

SAM: It's 64 pounds.

TRAVIS: It's 64.

LAURA: Oh, it was 64 pounds. (groans)

MATT: (laughs)

TRAVIS: Like I just told you.

ASHLEY: 64 pounds of scales.

TRAVIS: But I could get rid of some other stuff.

LAURA: Well, they're worth like 20,000 gold.

SAM: To whom?

LAURA: You don't care.

TRAVIS: We also have fifteen cases of expensive-ass bottles of wine.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to point out, since -

LIAM, LAURA, AND MARISHA: We should drink those.

TALIESIN: We should drink those, first of all. That is the only thing that makes sense. And I feel - and I apologize if it seems like I say this a lot, but I do have a castle that we can drop things at -

LAURA: Oh!

TALIESIN: And we can leave them there, perhaps get back to them at a later date.

MARISHA: To be fair, Percy, you do a lot to remind us to try not to forget that you're titled.

SAM: To be fair, have we ever gone back for something before, ever, in our entire travels?

TALIESIN: Yes. We -

SAM: What?

LIAM: We needn't stay here long. I don't think what I'm here for is going to take too long. I hope. We could go to Whitestone next.

TALIESIN: Yes, that would be -

SAM: All right. All right.

TALIESIN: - and just drop everything off, create a little nest of what we need.

LAURA: All right. Let's go find your queen.

TRAVIS: (quietly) There is some gross shit in this bag.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: You found the troll dick, didn't you?

LAURA: What do you have in there?

TRAVIS: There are six basilisk eggs.

LAURA: Are they still good?

MARISHA: Those are probably bad.

TALIESIN: Oh, I bet those have gone really bad.

TRAVIS: I reach into the Bag of Holding and think about one basilisk egg.

LIAM: I'm sure they smell like Grog.

MATT: You pull out a basilisk egg.

TALIESIN: Do they just turn to stone?

LAURA: Does it smell like a fart?

MATT: It's roughly that size. It's a dull grayish-blue hint.

LIAM: Sulfuric?

TRAVIS: Can I get the smell?

MATT: It has a somewhat, very vague sulfurous scent on the outside of the egg.

TRAVIS: I'll put it back in the bag.

ASHLEY: Oh, Vanessa!

LAURA: We could make stink-bombs with it.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Ooh.

LIAM: Yeah, we could.

MARISHA: Good idea. I like that.

TRAVIS: All right. So what's next?

LAURA: We go see the Raven Queen. You go see the Raven Queen and we wait outside.

LIAM: I didn't say anything.

LAURA: Uselessly.

LIAM: I didn't say anything!

TALIESIN: Is it in the direction where I have to go?

MATT: Where are you heading?

TALIESIN: I need to resupply everything.

MATT: That's the opposite direction.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: You're heading to the Braving Grounds. They're heading to the Duskmeadow.

TRAVIS: Oh! I like the sound of that. I'll go with you.

TALIESIN: Yes, you will.

SAM: I'll come with you, as well.

TRAVIS: Yeah, three! Who else? Any other takers while Vax goes and gets a tattoo?

MATT: (laughs)

LIAM: Another tattoo?

TRAVIS: Well, I thought that - is that not what you're doing?

LAURA: That's what he's doing, Grog.

LIAM: It is. I'm getting a tattoo.

ASHLEY: Close. Something like that.

LIAM: It will say “Phillip the Brave”.

TRAVIS: (gasps)

LIAM: Across the small of my back.

TRAVIS: Phillip. Full name, Phillip.

TALIESIN: Just a - this is out of - I don't know if this is going to be any help or anything, by the way, Vax, but just in case. I'm going to reach in and pull out the mask and hand it to Vax. Just in case.

LIAM: (slowly) I don't know. Thank you.

MARISHA: Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

MARISHA: Do you still have that raven's skull I gave you?

TALIESIN: I do. We'll talk about that.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: But that - I've found in moments when I was feeling less than brave that pretending to be somebody else on occasion, even afterwards, can be helpful.

LIAM: Is there anything left inside of this?

TALIESIN: Just some spit.

LIAM: That's wonderful.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: And something that smells nice in the front that will help. It helps cleanse the air.

LIAM: All right, Percival.

TALIESIN: I don't know why. I'm feeling… what would be the word? Superstitious.

MARISHA: Oh, I was going to say “giving.”

LAURA: She's ornery today.

MARISHA: Sorry. Angry.

TALIESIN: You know, I kind of like it.

LIAM: You know. Enough chit-chat. Let's get this shit done.

MATT AND TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: So you three are going to the Braving Grounds. You four are going to the Duskmeadow.

LAURA: We are.

MATT: Okay. All right, so. You three are making your way towards the Braving Grounds. Following suit after Percival, you make your way up not quite to the Trial Forge, which is where you had your last discussion and brief showdown with Earthbreaker Groon. Still seeing the large statue of Kord looming over the entirety of the realm. You can still see the large columns of dark smoke and soot coming out of the various forges, the various mining encampments, and a lot of the folks there that are working on different pieces of iron and metal. You, I assume, make your way to a very familiar abode. (laughs)

TALIESIN: Of all the options of the world that you've given me…

MATT: All right. You, uh -

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: This is really your fault as much as it's mine.

MATT: You come up to the outside of a familiar hovel. Previously damaged, missing part of its roof. The roof is mostly repaired. You actually see two individuals are over the top of it, hammering pieces of wood into it. Not a very fine job, but definitely enough patchwork to keep the rain and snow from pouring in. The door is partially open as you approach.

TALIESIN: (sighs heavily)

SAM: You might be blown up if you go in there.

TALIESIN: I know.

TRAVIS: Should we wait outside?

TALIESIN: Let's just all be ginger. (louder) Hello? Victor, are you home? It's Percy.

MATT: Silence.

SAM: Want me to go in and investigate?

TALIESIN: Hold on. (louder) Hello, you up there? Hello?

MATT: (hammering noises) "What?"

TALIESIN: Where is the owner of this domicile?

MATT: "I don't know. I haven't seen him."

TALIESIN: How long has he been gone for?

MATT: "(mutters) (louder) Couple of hours."

SAM: Oh, good. Not dead, then.

TRAVIS: He's dead.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Do you have any idea where he's been off to?

MATT: "I haven't seen him leave." (hammering noises)

TALIESIN: Well, I'm going to pop in and check really quickly, just letting you know.

MATT: "Your funeral." (hammering noises)

TALIESIN: I gingerly open the door. Can I check for traps?

TRAVIS: Attaboy.

MATT: You may. Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're standing right here.

TALIESIN: Oh, yay, that's not that bad. Investigation? I never use that. 11. No, 12. 12.

MATT: 12, okay. (creak) You move the door open and kind of search the ground and the area before it and the actual frame of the door itself. No traps.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: Glancing inside, though, you can see a little bit of light. It looks like there's a hooded lantern across the way and just a little bit of light is flickering and it's kind of going against the wall nearest to you, to your right, as you enter. The same familiar smell of fresh earth, really, really, really dry dust and a very familiar smell of explosive black powder material.

TALIESIN: Oh, dear.

SAM: Is Victor in there?

TALIESIN: No, I don't see anybody in here.

SAM: Well, should we just purchase what you need via the honor system and leave some coin behind?

TALIESIN: He's not necessarily always a believer in coin. Sometimes he just wants some trade. Also, I need to talk to him about some personal issues.

MATT: (boof) You see off to the side, what you didn't initially notice as you entered, what appears to be a wooden trapdoor in the far corner that (boof).

TALIESIN: Oh, sweet gods of Pelor!

MATT: (boof) (boof boof) And you notice that apparently something - a large sack of some heavy material has rolled off a nearby table and is now currently holding the door down.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: You hear a muffled, "I'm inside!"

TALIESIN: I'm going to go try and lift it. (grunts)

MATT: You lift it up, set it off to the side. (boosh) "(coughing) What's going on? You trying to kill me?"

TALIESIN: (laughs) No! No - hello, Victor. I was just to give you money. You were stuck - you had gotten stuck down - what is down there?

MATT: "This is my mining building."

SAM: Your mine?

MATT: (scoffs)

TALIESIN: His Mayan building. Can you not -

SAM: I can't.

TALIESIN: - understand simple English?

MATT: "Don't put things on top of the door. It makes it hard to get out!"

SAM: (whispering) Something's happened to him.

TALIESIN: Are you all right?

MATT: "I'm okay!"

TALIESIN: Are you sure?

MATT: "No, I've been locked down here for hours!"

ASHLEY: Oh no.

TALIESIN: Um. Grog, Scanlan? (stutters) Come on in, he's fine.

MATT: "Help me out!" He raises his hands up. You can see now, where once was two, now is none.

EVERYONE: Oh no!

ASHLEY and LAURA: Victor!

MATT: (grunts)

LIAM: You have to build him a hand.

TALIESIN: I know.

MATT: "(grunts) I can't wait all day, here!"

SAM: Grog, can you get him out, can you lift him up?

TALIESIN: Grog, can you lift the poor -

TRAVIS: All right, all right, yeah. I grab the stump and I pick him up into the air.

MATT: "(screams)"

TRAVIS: I shake him a little bit.

MATT: "(yelps)"

TALIESIN: I need him mostly intact.

TRAVIS: Oh. So, like, on the ground?

TALIESIN: Treat him slightly better than you would treat a member of your own family.

MATT: "Don't shake me too hard."

TALIESIN: More than slightly better. Much better.

LAURA: Oh, don't shake him too hard - I'm not there.

TRAVIS: Oh. Gas.

MATT: "Sure."

TRAVIS: I put him gently back on the ground.

MATT: "Thank you." He pats you on the head with his nub.

SAM: Ugh.

MATT: Goes over. You can see he's kind of bandaged. He goes over and then pulls the ladder up that he didn't use, closes the -

TRAVIS: (laughing) The ladder he didn't use?

MATT: "Okay. So. What do you want?"

TALIESIN: Well, I was hoping to buy a little bit more black powder from you, if possible, and I'm curious if you had anything else for sale, and I wanted to ask you a couple of questions, just about other customers again.

MATT: "That's a lot."

TALIESIN: I know.

MATT: "Eh! I can - I have powder."

TALIESIN: You do.

MATT: "I can sell you more powder. Question one: yes. How much?"

TALIESIN: One question?

LIAM: First question.

TALIESIN: First question. Has a one-armed lady, a one-handed lady, a doctor come by to purchase -

MATT: "Not a lady. I am an honorable man!"

TRAVIS: Don't insult him.

TALIESIN: I know. And I would never insult your honor or preferences of any kind, but -

MATT: "Are you saying I'm pretty?"

TALIESIN: Victor, I think you know how I feel about that, but you're a very attractive man, and -

MATT: "Your friend's hitting on me."

TRAVIS: I know it.

MATT: "I'm taken."

TRAVIS: He's taken.

TALIESIN: Are you dating right now?

MATT: "No, I'm just taken."

TALIESIN: Okay. (laughs) I can't. I'm sorry. I'm good.

MATT: "(shouting) How much?"

TALIESIN: Well, I was going to offer, I was originally going to offer some gold if you like, but if you'd like, I could make you a tool you could use with your current predicament. Some sort of simple clawing mechanism for grasping, lifting, not getting caught in your mine.

MATT: "Maybe. Maybe. Maybe a trade? Maybe a claw?"

TALIESIN: I love trade. Trade is brilliant.

MATT: "Build and bring. Build and bring, and we trade."

TALIESIN: I would ask one other thing, if I am to do this for you.

MATT: "Oh, so many questions! Does he have questions, too? Does he have questions, too?!"

SAM: I do have a question, actually.

TALIESIN: You have a question?

SAM: Yes, I do.

TRAVIS: I don't, no. I don't have any questions. None.

MATT: "(sighs) I like him. What's your question?"

SAM: I'm just looking for a hat shop. Is there a hat shop around here?

MATT: "Ehm." And he starts pulling around from a pile of oiled rags and shit and he pulls up what looks like a small burlap sack that's torn somewhat at the opening. "Hat."

SAM: Oh, god. Ugh. All right, thank you. Thank you.

MATT: "My pleasure. Happy to help. (chuckles)"

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: That was everything I could have hoped for, and more.

MATT: "Don't get near the fire."

TALIESIN: Really, don't.

SAM: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Has Dr. Ripley - has a woman come by to buy black powder, one hand, one mechanical hand, one normal hand? Mechanical hand?

MATT: "Is that the one you're saying you can make?"

TALIESIN: I'm going to make you something, nice and useful claw piece, yes.

MATT: "So you're saying that this woman made a better hand than you can make?"

TALIESIN: No, I can make a better hand.

MATT: "Then make me a better hand! Why would you give me a lesser hand?!"

TALIESIN: You're going to need to give me quite a bit of black powder for that. And more questions.

TRAVIS: Ooh.

MATT: "Really?"

(all laugh)

MATT: "I've had a bad day."

TALIESIN: Is that recent?

SAM: That happened today?

TALIESIN: It doesn't look that recent.

MATT: (ripping sounds) He starts unwrapping the wound.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's recent. That's wet. That's very wet.

MATT: It's pretty recent.

TALIESIN: Oh. Okay. I can work with that. I can work with that. I'm going to go construct you something that will be perfect for your needs. I have a great idea. I will need another hogshead and a half of black powder and a little information about another customer and then I will leave you to your work. Is that fair?

MATT: "Fair!" He turns around, rushes over, and grabs the same phantom hogshead that he has lying around his place.

TALIESIN: He eats a lot of pork.

MATT: Before he fills it with powder, he goes over to Scanlan and goes, "(hums) Too big."

TRAVIS: Good hat.

MATT: Fills it with black powder, carefully brings it over, holding it under his arm. "(grunts)"

TALIESIN: Thank you. (grunts) I will put this in something reasonable. I'll be back in just a little bit with - actually, do you have a glove that you used to wear, or anything like that? Do you have something?

MATT: "Yes!" He pulls out the glove that was on the hand, (laughing) and you can see that it's blown apart, half burned to cinders, fingers gone.

TALIESIN: I can take measurements from that.

MATT: It's more of a sleeve with a charcoaled edge.

TALIESIN: I'm going to be busy. Can you cast the -

SAM: No, but Keyleth can, and I think that would save you a lot of time.

MARISHA: I'm not here.

TALIESIN: She's not here.

SAM: No, but we can go get her and come back.

TALIESIN: To?

SAM: To just fix his hand.

TALIESIN: I don't think she can just fix his hand.

SAM: Someone can restore something. Maybe Pike can.

MARISHA: I can. Not today, but I can over time.

TRAVIS: Want me to give it a try?

TALIESIN: While I'm tempted - would you just - I feel like I made a deal. I'm just going to have to see to it.

SAM: I think he would prefer a real hand than a claw hand.

TALIESIN: Would you prefer a real hand or a claw hand?

MATT: "Depends. How cool is the claw hand?"

TRAVIS and SAM: (laugh)

TALIESIN: That's what I thought.

SAM: I would much rather you spend time on projects for us than projects for him.

TALIESIN: This is projects for us.

TRAVIS: I vote for the claw. It's pretty cool.

TALIESIN: And believe me, I would like -

MATT: "Cooler than that lady's hand?"

TALIESIN: Keeping him happy is pertinent because I'm - I can make this myself, it's just very difficult.

SAM: We have party members who can regrow his hand.

TRAVIS: Hey, Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

TRAVIS: He wants the claw to be cooler than that lady's claw hand.

TALIESIN: That's very easy to do. She has no aesthetics whatsoever.

TRAVIS: All right. Then eff the old original hand. Let's give him a reasonable claw, yeah?

TALIESIN: Don't worry about it.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine. And if you can't do the mansion, I know where I can go get some work done.

SAM: Oh, you want me to make - we have the Slayer's Take. They have a workshop, don't they?

TALIESIN: If not, I know where I can work on something. I will be back. I will not leave town before I've delivered to you something -

MATT: "(squawks)" He takes the hogshead.

TALIESIN: Oh! Absolutely fair.

MATT: "Trade when you bring hand."

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

MATT: "Then I deliver with new hand. Then all is well."

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "No more questions!"

TALIESIN: Aah - no. That's fine. We'll be back! It'll be good.

MATT: "You're small."

SAM: I need a big hat.

MATT: "Can't help you, sorry."

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Are we going to go find a hat shop, then?

SAM: Maybe, if we pass one.

TALIESIN: All right. We will be back. Stay safe.

MATT: "Okay. Don't touch the door, please!"

TALIESIN: Yes. No. Just. We'll be back. Bye! I'm going to go find a workshop to work on something.

TRAVIS: I like you. We'll see you later.

MATT: "(chuckles) He's big."

TRAVIS: (chuckles)

TALIESIN: And I'm just right. It's… a thing.

MATT: I'm undecided about you."

TALIESIN: You're not alone. I'm going to go see if the Slayer's Take has a -

SAM: We're going to leave.

TALIESIN: I cannot handle any more of that. That was brutal.

SAM: Too good.

TRAVIS: I feel like you're just on a higher level.

ASHLEY: Right?

LAURA: So much. I just thought you were going to make him not there so you didn't have to do it.

MATT: No no no.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah yeah. He's just not home. Sorry, guys.

ASHLEY: Oh, I love him.

MARISHA: Victor's on vacation.

TALIESIN: So, I'm going to go see if there's - if there's not a blacksmithing, if there's not somewhere I can do a bit of basic smithing work and technical work, then I'm going to go find that blacksmith from last time.

MATT: There's basic materials to do essentially weapon repairs, armor repairs, minor armor construction within the Slayer's Take. If you want something that's going to be a little more to the level of what you're doing, you may have to actually rent out a facility.

TALIESIN: Well, I'm going to go find that young chap from before.

MATT: Okay. Yeah, easy enough to do. If you want to rent the forge for the day to craft whatever it is you're looking to craft, he's charging you 50 gold for the day.

TALIESIN: 50 gold for the day? Can I use all of his tools and just my own materials?

MATT: You have to supply your own material, but he'll let you rent.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run and find Vex, get my stuff, and go to work.

MATT: Okay. You guys. You four make your way over towards the Duskmeadow. Now -

LAURA: Trinket's out.

MATT: Trinket's out? (fwoosh)(Trinket groan)

LAURA: Come on, Trinket.

MATT: (Trinket grunt) He rolls his head against you, licks the side of your face, happy to be out of that stuffy little necklace. You make your way towards the Duskmeadow, which you've seen before. It's a very comparatively glum-looking area of the town, hence the name that accompanies it, but this is the area of the city that contains the Raven's Crest, the Amaranthine Oubliette. It also contains the entire town's catacombs. This is where, since this town's existence, all of the dead are interred perpetually deeper and deeper and deeper beneath this part of the city. This is - also one of the oldest libraries of the city is kept here as well. As you approach the outskirts of - and you can see a very fine line between this area and the Birth Heart, which is the Melora section of the city. There is a very, very wide river divide between the two of them and it's like night and day, back and back. Very, very, very directly between the two of them. You can see on Melora's side there's just stalks and stalks of corn and other vegetation that's being grown for food. There's almost like a lush forest that curls around the outside of it that doesn't match the rest of the indigenous trees you've seen in this area of Othanzia. The entire Birth Heart area, where this temple to Melora is, is just this plucked-out-of-nowhere section placed into it. And then you move over to the Duskmeadow and it's just… like the color has left the vicinity. And there you see in the center of this part of the town, this large, looming, ominous obsidian and gold structure. It's like a giant black stone aerie. It has no intricacies from this distance that you can see. It's almost like a giant square building that is just devoid of light, with little glimmers of gold when the light catches it at moments. It's hard to miss and definitely stands as a centerpiece to this section of Vasselheim.

LIAM: The whole walk over, I've been talking a lot, mostly to Trinket. You know, scratching him behind the ears, saying, Buddy, you've been trapped in there a while. It's good to see you out.

MATT: (Trnket moans, snuffles)

LIAM: Come hug your uncle. Come.

LAURA: He doesn't mind it.

LIAM: I'm sure he doesn't. I'm just happy to see him.

MATT: He presses his nose under yours and lifts your chin up and you bite your lip a little from the sudden impact from this very large bear, but it's all with love.

LIAM: Yeah. It's cold. You're sure you don't want to go back in? Nah, you don't want to go back in. I know.

MARISHA: (whispering) Hey, Pike.

LIAM: Just nervous talking the whole way there.

MARISHA: (whispering) I think Vax is talking to himself.

ASHLEY: (whispering) He's very nervous right now. This is a big deal.

MARISHA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: This temple is very… it's lovely.

MARISHA: It's gorgeous. It's very intimidating. Do you know anything about this? You've lived here for a while, Pike.

ASHLEY: I've never been by.

MARISHA: Never been in?

ASHLEY: I've never been in, no.

MATT: You do know from your time here and what little you've heard that part of the purpose of this vicinity is not just to inter the dead within part of these catacombs. The library here is kind of a loose partnership between the people worshipers of her and those who follow Ioun. It is a center for knowledge and history kept within the city. But you'll see throughout the town and the landscaped outer wall that surrounds this entire portion of Vasselheim, there are repetitive glyphs that line this entire area. And from what you've heard, at the very least, most of these glyphs, which you see across the corners of roadways, and many of which surround the entrance to the catacombs, it is a perpetual enchantment that is to seal any sort of possible undead. There once was a terrible scourge of undeath in this part of the landscape, long ago, that corresponded with a battle hundreds of years ago, and since then, the reinforcement has been put in place to prevent that from happening again. So the downside is that the power of these glyphs that prevent undeath also prevent any actual vegetation from existing in this area as well. So all the ground that you've come across: no grass, no natural vegetation. It's just dirt and ash and dust.

MARISHA: Can we recognize the language in which the runes come from? Or is it just runes?

MATT: The magic itself is divine in nature, but it's based in the same very, very base draconic glyphs that a lot of arcane magic is based on. It's very - it's OLD magic.

MARISHA: Oh.

ASHLEY: (laughs) It's old.

MATT: But, yeah. It's based in some sort of divine ritual.

MARISHA: What did you say the name was of the Raven Queen's temple, again?

MATT: The temple itself is referred to as Raven's Crest.

MARISHA: Raven - Raven's Crest?

LIAM: Raven's.

MATT: Raven's Crest, yes.

MARISHA: Okay.

ASHLEY: How are you feeling, Vax?

LIAM: I'm all right. I'm just going to talk to my sister for a minute.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: You know, I know you want to - I know you. I know you want to be here.

LAURA: I know you don't want me to come.

LIAM: I don't. I really don't.

LAURA: I know. And I won't, if you're sure. I put you in this place and I feel terrible about it and I know you're extremely nervous. Trinket can sense it, too. He's very in tune with those emotions, and I just -

LIAM: Listen to me.

LAURA: (sighs)

LIAM: You did not put me in this place. No one put me in this place. And everything's going to be fine.

LAURA: Everything will be fine!

LIAM: And I tug her sleeves and make them a little more orderly and I move a bit of hair out of her face and I do a button that's not done.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: Everything's going to be fine.

LAURA: I wanted it unbuttoned, actually.

LIAM: That's all right. Just wait here. I'll be out in a bit, all right?

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: Everything's fine.

LAURA: I know. Everything's fine.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: You don't need to be nervous, either.

LIAM: I'm not.

LAURA: I will be here waiting for you when you come out.

LIAM: I know. I'll see you -

LAURA: I love you.

LIAM: You know I love you, too.

LAURA: I'm proud of you, you know. She's just going to love you so much. And who knows, you might have a new girlfriend when you come out. (laughs nervously, sighs) I've heard other people have dated gods before. I've heard it's done. That Cashew guy. Anyway.

LIAM: You're going to wait here for me, right?

LAURA: I'll be right here.

LIAM: And then I drop the smile as I walk off towards the other two.

MATT: Okay. Which, as you turn and look, when you originally approached the stairs that lead up to the entrance of this large structure, it was just empty, doors closed. There was no guard post on the outside. It was just these two looming, almost dark glass-type doors about 12 feet tall and about eight feet wide on each side that are just locked shut. As soon as you turn to walk towards them, the doors open and you see a figure standing there at the door, just looking directly at you. Or at least you assume is looking right at you. It's hard to see. This individual, somewhat lithe in physicality, is wearing long, dark robes and their face is shrouded in opaque black cloth, like a death shroud that just blocks the entire face. You can see the hint of a jawline, a nose. It looks to be a person of some background in there, but they're just standing there, watching you. And as soon as you react to their appearance, the hand just beckons quietly.

LIAM: Were you expecting me? All right. I've brought a couple of friends. Is that permissible here? They'll keep quiet.

MARISHA: I turn to Vex.

LAURA: Keep him safe.

MARISHA: I swear to you. We're all coming out of here alive.

LAURA: I know.

MARISHA: But if like an hour passes and we don't, maybe come in? But we're all coming out of here alive, so don't worry about it. It's fine.

ASHLEY: And I squeeze her hand. I'll make sure he gets out okay. I promise.

LAURA: All right.

ASHLEY: Okay. Please be safe.

LAURA: It'll be fine.

ASHLEY: It'll be fine. Yes.

LAURA: I'll just be right here. Waiting here with Trinket.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Just calmly leaning against a wall. No big deal.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: We've faced way more terrifying things than a few albeit creepy men in robes.

LAURA: I don't even think she's that bad. She's not going to be bad.

LIAM: Guys.

LAURA: Just go.

ASHLEY: Okay. We'll go. We'll go in with you.

MATT: All right. As you step up to the stairs, the figure leads you all inside, and as you step into the main center of this initial walkway chamber, the figure doesn't enter with you. It just closes the door behind you. (echoing thud) You can feel the hint of vibration of impact as the doors close shut.

MARISHA: It's dark?

MATT: It's lowly lit on the inside, and it's interesting. From the outside, it looks like a black, solid, impossible-to-see-through building. From the inside, you can actually look out and the entire building is made of this glass, this somewhat-warped, dark glass. And you can see almost the entirety of the outside from your position. The doors are held aloft into it. It's like a one-way type enchantment, or the construct, the material itself, is somewhat translucent from this side.

MARISHA: Like an interrogation room? Like one-way mirror type of thing?

MATT: Kind of. Or like a very, very dark pair of sunglasses, but made of naturally-formed rock, almost.

LIAM: Noticing that, I turn and just sort of look at my sister for five or 10 more seconds.

MATT: She doesn't see you and she just stands there quietly, looking around, inspecting the vicinity. Pets Trinket a little.

LIAM: (hesitantly) Let's do this.

SAM: (chuckles)

ASHLEY: Do I feel anything, being in here?

MATT: You just feel a natural tremble stepping into a place of powerful divine influence that is not the warm comfort of Sarenrae, which has protected you before. Now, you understand the way many deities work in these lands, and your place in it, and Sarenrae's place in it, and you know enough about the Raven Queen to know that this is not an unwelcome place, per se. Go ahead and roll a religion check.

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 23. You understand the Raven Queen has also not always been the one who holds sway over the domain of death, the domain of winter, the domain of fate. Once mortal, the Raven Queen ascended as, essentially, a follower and a partner to the previous god of death, which his name has been erased from the books. This mortal ascended many, many years ago, pre-Second Spark, and has since taken what was once a tyrannical position of death and afterlife and souls and took it instead as the natural transition that it is. However, due to a lack of respect, or at least, a lack of, for lack of a better term, belief or trust from the other gods, she only gained dominion over the actual moment of transition, not of the actual souls of the afterlife. That influence was given to others. But the Raven Queen represents one of the most feared elements of life, which is the end of it, but you also know that that is a natural thing. Your personal belief is up to you. The sense you get here is that being an individual that worships life, that worships redemption, that worships second chances, you can't help but swallow a little hard at the idea of a god that's purpose is to make sure that if you're destined to have one chance, it stays one chance.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: As you begin to walk down this hall, ever so slow as it is, each footfall deafening in the clack. (clicking footsteps) The hallway leads on for another hundred feet or so before the glass, somewhat translucent material shifts into the next chamber, into an almost deep gray and ivory ice-like interior. The dark, coal-black exterior you've seen now transitions into what feels like a very finely-carved piece of architecture from ice and bone.

MARISHA: Do I get the sense as a druid, as an Ashari, that we've switched into another plane?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a… just roll an arcana check -

MARISHA: (sighs)

MATT: - as this is not so much a nature-based thing, yeah.

MARISHA: Oh! I rolled a 19.

(laughs) 21.

LIAM: Oh dear, oh my.

LAURA: Oh gosh, oh jeez.

MARISHA: Oh gosh, oh gracious.

MATT: From your understanding of transitional magic between planes, there has been no actual shift between planes, it's just the material itself is different upon the interior of this building. As soon as you enter this place, you do see another figure walking towards you. Similar long, dark robes. However, the veil has been pulled back, and you see before you what looks to be an older elven woman with very, very bright silver hair that just kind of falls long, past her shoulders, down to her back about mid-waist, or down to the bottom of her waist. With a smile. You can see as she walks towards you, a very welcoming grin. As she approaches, she pays very little mind to you three, but directly to you, says--

LAURA: (whispers) I'm not there.

MATT: "You walk with Her sight on you. You are ever welcome here."

LIAM: I've come to understand my place in Her sight.

MATT: "Then I think, perhaps, you are here for communion. Come. Our most sacred chamber. The communion pool awaits. Only you may have entry, unfortunately.

LIAM: Right. I plant a kiss on the cheek of each of the women.

MARISHA: Do you need anything before you go in? Any enhancement of any kind?

LIAM: Just cross your fingers for me, okay?

MARISHA: Okay. I just kind of squeeze his hand.

ASHLEY: Same. Be careful.

MARISHA: We're right out here on the other side of this door. If anything terrible happens, you have the earpiece. No one will stop Pike and I from getting through there if something terrible goes wrong. Rules be damned.

LIAM: I made my bed. Now I gotta lie in it. I'll see you soon. I follow.

MATT: "Come, champion. The Lady of Fates awaits." And she turns around and leads you 30 more feet to what looks to be an ascending staircase that just enters up and out of the sight of you two.

ASHLEY: We'll just hang out, yeah?

MARISHA: I guess we'll wait, yeah.

MATT: You ascend a few feet behind her, about 40 or so feet, until it comes to a single large doorway of deep, deep dark oak wood with what looks to be a dark iron ring in the center. As she steps up to it, she takes it and knocks on it twice. (deep creak) It just shifts open and leads into a central chamber now that looks about a hundred feet high, and it is a large steepled dome of what looks to be nothing but stained glass. It's awe-inspiring. It's beautiful: the colors, the light as it peeks through. The source of light, diffused as it is by the clouds, is sourceless in here. It seems like there are beams of light coming from all directions and all the colors are just strewn across the floor in what looks like this perpetually-shifting kaleidoscope of dots of reds and blues and purples and yellows and pinks and whites. You can see, across the room, there are three other figures that are all dressed in the same dark robes, the veils over their heads, of varying size. You can't make out what their racial background is, per se, but they are all stationed around the center of the room, in which lies, from what you can see, a very, very large round pool of some sort of deep crimson liquid.

LIAM: I have come to pay a debt, and I do so gladly and without question. What would you have of me?

MATT: "You came to speak with the Lady. Well, the way is before you." She gestures to the pool.

LIAM: I walk slow and straight in.

MATT: You step into it. (squelch) It comes up to your ankles, to your knees. And what catches you first is that the liquid is very thick. It is viscous in a familiar way. This is most definitively a pool of blood. And it is cold. It is ice-cold. As you step in, you can feel that as it begins to seep into your boots and begins to find its way into the crevices of your outfit as you get down into your waist, it's just chilling. You can't help but to stand up straight as you step further in, not quite sure of how deep it gets. And it gets deeper. And deeper. Up past your chest, up past your shoulders, and you're not even halfway into the center of the pool before it's going past your nose.

LIAM: I keep going.

MATT: You take your last breath, hold it, and submerge yourself in the pool. Darkness around you, the cold sensation. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing.

LIAM: I open my mouth and inhale.

MATT: As you do, you feel the blood fill your lungs and you immediately - your lungs begin to seize with the lack of oxygen. You instinctually begin to reach up for the water and pull, but you can't rise. You can't get up. And at that point, the cold, piercing pain of the liquid in your lungs becomes warm. All the liquid around you becomes warm. And in the darkness, where you cannot see, you calm, as suddenly your breathing is no longer difficult. It's natural. It's like air. And it's reminiscent of being in the womb, of the moment of birth you'd forgotten so long ago, that you're just surrounded in darkness and comfort. And piercing the center of this darkness before you, you see a very faint bead of white light just begin to spark and grow, and grow, and as that light widens out, it becomes a face. A porcelain face. A nose, lips, a chin, empty dark sockets, long dark hair that goes to crimson and surrounds you. You see a small hand reach up behind and lift you from your legs. And for what you thought was only a few feet of liquid, you look around you and it is an endless space, a space you've been before, a space that you once visited in your sleep, in your dreams. You look down below and you can see the infinite skein of threads that you were once given inspection to. As you look down, you see the very palm of the Raven Queen holding you aloft in this space as the mask pulls in close to you with a smile. The lips don't move, but you hear a voice from all directions in your head. A comforting voice. A welcoming voice. "My champion. Vax'ildan. You've come to me at last."

LIAM: This was always supposed to happen, wasn't it?

MATT: "There is destiny, but you still guide your path where it must come. Especially you, fate-touched. You're one of the few that bends threads near and around you. That's why you're so interesting to me."

LIAM: (haltingly) I give myself willingly to you for the bargain that was struck, although I question if the bargain was just the surface reason for this to happen.

MATT: "When one such as your… unique essence walks these realms, do not think I am the only one to take interest. And do not think you are the only one, either. But I was there to seize the opportunity when it arose, and as such, you are now mine. And I know that you hate me. I know that you fear me. Most do. But only because they are without understanding. Without death, life has no meaning. Finality drives change. Innovation, greatness. It is the end that I bring that drives all of your gracious creations of this land to make the world better than we did, than those before me did."

LIAM: I would learn your ways. I will learn your purpose. And I will serve.

MATT: "Then understand the wholeness of what it is you serve and what you represent, champion. Even after death, the soul is carried to another purpose, but it is that transition where it is at its most vulnerable. It is my charge, my gift - your gift, now - to safeguard that beautiful moment. There are those who find the immortal soul one of the most pure and powerful means of energy, of sourced power, in this world. That is an abomination. There are those that wish to halt the process and live eternally in some form of undeath or the other. That is an abomination. There is also a difference between bending your thread around destiny, fate-touched, and perverting the thread entirely, for death is sacred. But not all deaths are destined, in that moment. Some destinies require one to endure beyond the moment. To meet that moment many times before the final death is to come. We must guide these moments across this web." And as she sweeps her hand out. Where she holds you in one palm, another hand reaches out, and the entire web of threads just glows below you in this curling wave out into infinity, into the horizons, endless, to each side of you and beyond. "So, to bend destiny, to bend these fates, is within our sphere of influence. It's those that find a way to cheat this destiny, halt the progression, corrupt their thread to the point it sickens those around them. Undeath, wayward necromancy. Perversion of the sanctity of the cycle, of our very domain, is an atrocity and must be stopped and stamped out. That is our cause. Your cause, now. Do you still accept this gift?"

LIAM: (whispering) I do.

MATT: "You, Vax'ildan. I've had my eye on you for some time." And the smile curls into this much wider smile. To the point it seems somewhat perturbing. "Your dual nature: rushing prematurely towards your end, wantonly throwing your life before the flames, only to pull away in those last moments. Instinct. You test your path constantly, without knowing you've been preparing for this mantle your entire life. My beautiful champion." The smile subsides. The face goes stone. Lack of expression. Blank. The hand pulls back and you now can see the full immensity of her size. Her body infinitely long, looking down before it disappears into darkness. And as you look up, suddenly the mask is there before you, but normal, human-sized. You're no longer in her hand. You're standing on a floor, a floor of the same white, ice-bone type substance that the interior of Raven's Crest seems to be built from. And for a brief moment, you see before you the woman before the god, the ascended mortal, no larger than you. From the hair that topples down the sides, the hand reaches up and grabs the mask and pulls it away. Beneath the mask you see a very beautiful, very sad-looking woman. But her eyes are cold and red in the iris. Her skin flawless and smooth. White, pale, sunless. Her brows thinned and furrowed. She steps forward and touches the side of your face. "There are those who will be frightened of you. But know what we do is one of the most important gifts of all." And she grabs your head, pulls you down, and kisses you on the forehead. At which point, suddenly your lungs fill once again with searing white pain. You find yourself scrambling about, instinctually spilling out liquid all around you, and you finally (coughs) come out on top of the communion pool. Your eyes open and you can see just red crimson pouring in your vision. You rub it out and you're in the chamber alone. Eyes wide, swimming around, you can see the figures on the side come to the edges. They all bow. The figure that led you in stands at the mouth of this pool where you entered. She's smiling. She has her hand extended.

LIAM: I take it.

MATT: She lifts you out of the pool. One of the other figures runs up and takes one of the dark robes that they have and pulls it off around them, revealing just a simple dark blue and black outfit beneath. Still wearing the veil, but wraps the dark robe around you as the liquid is now back to its freezing cold sensation. Your teeth are chattering. They lead you back to the door you entered, down the stairs, and into the central chamber where both Keyleth and Pike await. You guys turn and see, descending the stairs, being flanked, essentially, by two of the members of the Raven's Crest, both of the shoulders with the dark robe wrapped around a very cold and somewhat freaked-out looking Vax'ildan, who has smeared red across his face. His hair is thick with viscous crimson liquid.

ASHLEY: I run over. You okay?

MARISHA: I stand at the bottom of the stairs and I watch.

LIAM: (hoarsely) I got answers in there, but they led to more questions. What am I to do with those questions?

MATT: The woman who had led you in there smiles and says, "That is the nature of death. We can't have all the answers, my friend. It is the pursuit of those answers that drives us. Do you trust her?"

LIAM: I do.

MATT: "Then perhaps you'll find those answers one day."

LIAM: Thank you.

MATT: "Thank you." They pull the robe off and they all head back up into the chamber, leaving you all there in the room alone.

MARISHA: I walk over.

ASHLEY: (whispering) I'm just going to stay where he is.

LIAM: I'm shell-shocked.

MARISHA: You look well.

LIAM: It's going to be good.

MARISHA: What did she say to you? Did she speak to you at all?

LIAM: (whispering) Yeah.

MARISHA: (shocked laugh)

LIAM: Do you speak?

ASHLEY: Yes?

LIAM: To her?

ASHLEY: Sometimes.

LIAM: Do you understand?

ASHLEY: I don't think you ever - any of us can fully understand. I think, if we did, then we would be gods.

MARISHA: Do you believe?

LIAM: Yeah. Yeah. I do. I don't know what… I don't know why, but… this was fate.

MARISHA: Is that what she told you, that this was fate?

LIAM: No.

MARISHA: You just -

LIAM: I know it here.

MARISHA: Why?

LIAM: Everything has led to it. You and I wouldn't be standing here if my sister hadn't stolen a broom. Where's the sense in that? What else is it? I teleported into the stomach of a dragon with a gnome and I am still standing here. If it is not fate, what is it?

MARISHA: I don't know. As someone who is constantly questioning mine, I don't think I'm the right person to ask. But I do know one thing. And I grab his hands. You were amazing and talented and special way before she found you. If anything, we can call her a god. We can also call her a great opportunist. She didn't give you anything special. The Vax that I see before me right now is no different than the Vax that I saw before me ten minutes ago. I'm not saying that what you experienced wasn't real and true. I believe you whole-heartedly.

LIAM: This is real. This was meant to be. And I am on board.

MARISHA: Is it what was meant to be or what you just really wanted? And it found you?

LIAM: (disbelieving laughter) It is not what I wanted. Thank you. Thank you. I need to see my sister. And I head off towards the exit.

MATT: You guys make your way to the outside of Raven's Crest. The doors open once again. The figure that let you in is waiting for you, opens the door. As you see the doors open -

LAURA: I jump up immediately. I've bitten off all my fingernails.

MATT: (laughs) Rushing down the stairs, you see Pike, Keyleth, and your brother in a little better spirits than when he first entered, if a little damper and redder.

LAURA: Is that blood? Is that blood all over you? Did she hurt you?

LIAM: It was really - It was really weird, but it's fine. I told you I'd be fine, and I'm fine.

LAURA: I get out a rag and I start just wiping everything off. (laughs) You're alive, though.

LIAM: (laughs) Yeah, doesn't make any sense, does it.

LAURA: (still laughing) Oh my god, are you stronger now? Are you, like, so strong?

LIAM: I think I might be a bit weaker, actually.

LAURA: Oh, I don't believe it.

LIAM: I have the jelly-legs.

LAURA: (laughs) Do you want to ride Trinket for a while?

LIAM: Could I?

LAURA: Yes!

LIAM: He's going to get sticky.

LAURA: No, he loves the taste of blood.

MATT: (Trinket sad moaning)

LAURA: (laughs) Oh, Trinket.

MATT: Trinket comes over and begrudgingly lowers himself so you can climb on.

LIAM: Don't - no, don't lick. Don't lick.

LAURA: He's very light. Scrawny, scrawny, scrawny.

LIAM: But don't lick, Trink, please.

MATT: (grunts)

LIAM: Not good.

ASHLEY: Just one kiss? One little lick?

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: Later, buddy. Later. Later. I climb on top.

MATT: (grunts)

LAURA: Aren't you glad you got out of the Pokeball for this?

LIAM: I give a quick look back at my friends, and then I kind of take a nap on Trinket.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: So everything's good, then. He's good? Everything's fine?

ASHLEY: I think so… I mean, it's - it was very different, but that doesn't mean it's wrong.

LAURA: He talked to her?

MARISHA: He talked to her.

LAURA: Were you there?

ASHLEY: No.

MARISHA: They didn't let us in the room.

LAURA: Oh. Well, I'll find out.

MARISHA: We stood outside. All it - he didn't talk much about it. Maybe you can find out more. All he said was that he knows that this was fate.

LAURA: Well, good. He has a purpose.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh. Yeah. Well, that's one way of looking at it.

LIAM: (snores)

LAURA: I keep him steady and I walk next to him.

MATT: Okay. You guys eventually make your way back to the Slayer's Take. The three of you guys… what are you doing while this is transpiring?

TRAVIS: Eating my mechanical pencil.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: I've sent him with a shopping list.

MATT: Okay. What have they been sent to acquire?

TALIESIN: I'm going to need a cheap gauntlet, some saddling straps, three tankards, a pick-axe, and two clocks.

MATT: All right. How much gold do you give him?

LAURA: You've got -

TALIESIN: I've got - that's right, I've got.

SAM: Four gold.

TALIESIN: (snorts) I give -

LAURA: You've also got a five-pound bag of gems, don't forget.

TALIESIN: I do. I give him -

MARISHA: (giggles)

TRAVIS: Does he want wine?

TALIESIN: This is what happens.

MARISHA: Is that Riegel?

TALIESIN: That was Riegel.

MARISHA: (giggles)

TALIESIN: Don't read that. That's not necessary. I don't -

SAM: (singing) I drew a dick on his picture.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: And I need that man's dick to finish the arm.

MATT: That'll go over well.

TALIESIN: Despite the dick on my page, I'm going to give Scanlan 100 gold to take with Grog to find some junk items that they can put together.

SAM: I'm going with Grog to shop? All right, sure.

TALIESIN: If you're down.

SAM: Yeah. I'll do it. Yeah, we'll go for all that stuff. Do we find success?

MATT: I want you guys to go ahead and roll - actually, for you, just roll a general charisma check to ask around and get people to give you the proper information.

TALIESIN: I love you.

SAM: What is this, just charisma?

MATT: You just add your charisma modifier.

SAM: 18.

MATT: 18?

MATT: Yeah, within a very brief period of talking to the right people and smiling and getting folks to listen back to you, eventually you're given information on where each piece of that list is able to be found. They're not too crazy items. There's a lot in general stores, general armor -

TALIESIN: I don't even need an articulated gauntlet. It just needs to be clamp.

MATT: Yeah, just a basic clamp gauntlet.

SAM: Do we also find a hat store?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we'd better.

LAURA: You want another beret?

MATT: Not in the Braving Grounds -

SAM: Damn it.

MATT: - but you can definitely find one on your journey in the Quad Roads.

SAM: If I can take an extra side journey to find a hat shop, that would be great.

MATT: Certainly, certainly. Do you go with him?

TRAVIS: Fuck yeah.

MATT: (laughs)

SAM: It's just hats, Grog. We're just getting hats.

MATT: You guys make your way to the busy streets of the Quad Roads. Eventually, asking around, you find yourself across from what is called the Sore Socket Haberdashery.

SAM: The Sore Socket?

MATT: Sore Socket Haberdashery.

TRAVIS: I love it.

SAM: I love it.

MATT: And the picture outside has a caricature of a guy, smiling, with a giant black eye.

SAM: (laughs)

MATT: You walk inside and it's like a small, localized bar - not a tavern by any means, but it has like one small set-up in there for just general beer, and just loads and loads of hats. Leathers, cloth, all kinds of silly circumstances. You see some nice fancy hats with big feather plumes. You see joking hats that have multiple colors and what looks to be bells hanging from them. As you step into the room, you see two other random individuals that are looking around, shopping, and at the far end, you see coming through a big thing of curtains what looks to be a rather rotund woman in her late 40s or so. Big curls in her dark brown hair and maybe a little too much makeup on her face, who goes, "Darlings, what are you looking for? What can I get you? Are you looking for hats?

SAM: Oh, man.

MATT: "I assume you're looking for hats."

SAM: Wow. Yeah, we've come to the right place.

TRAVIS: The guys are missing out on this one.

(all laugh)

SAM: Hi, ma'am. My name's Scanlan. This is Grog. We're just - I needed one hat, but you have such a fantastic selection, maybe we'll pick up a few. How much money do I have left over from his hundo?

MATT: After all those materials, I'd say probably, asking around and your high charisma, you probably have about 60.

TRAVIS: Bro, we got money.

SAM: Let's get some hats!

MATT: "My name is Deidre, dear, so nice to meet you."

SAM: It's lovely to meet you.

MATT: "You're so adorable."

SAM: We've heard so much about this store.

MATT: "Really?"

SAM: Yes, far and wide.

MATT: "Oh ho, I can guarantee you, it's all true. And you, you're so big, you're so strapping.

TRAVIS: I am.

MATT: "And that beard!" She kind of tousles the beard with her fingers. "(giggles)"

TRAVIS: (giggles) Oh, stop it.

LAURA: Little food bits fall out.

SAM: I'm here to buy just one quick thing in particular, then we'll be on our way. I just want a very tall hat. Just very tall black hat with a point.

MATT: "Tall. Proportionally tall or regular?"

SAM: Like a big triangle hat.

MATT: "Hmm."

SAM: With a wide brim. Like a wide black hat just like this.

MARISHA AND TRAVIS: (laugh)

MATT: She thinks for a second. "I don't carry anything like that - "

SAM: All right, well, it was worth a -

MATT: " - but I can make you something - "

SAM: What?!

MATT: "- if you don't mind waiting a bit."

SAM: I could come back for it another day, perhaps.

MATT: "Oh, but at least let me measure your head, sweetie."

SAM: It's not for me.

MATT: "Do you know the size of who it's intended for?"

SAM: Well, her head's about - a little bigger than mine.

MATT: "I'll make it adjustable!"

SAM: All right, great.

MATT: "You have to pay half in advance, a custom order."

SAM: Sure, how much?

MATT: "That will be 10 gold now, and an additional 10 upon retrieval."

SAM: More than worth it. I'll take it.

MATT: "All right."

SAM: Boink. And also, can you get something for him that would really just accentuate his features?

TRAVIS: Me? What?

SAM: Yes, you need a hat.

TRAVIS: Oh, this streamlined. This is how the look goes.

SAM: But if it rains, Grog.

TRAVIS: But that's part of it. My muscles ripple in the moisture.

MATT: "Nothing to block the muscles, no, not at all, but I have to say, with a fine, smooth head, it does need a little decoration, if you don't mind me saying."

TRAVIS: Oh. You think so?

MATT: "(chuckles) You!"

SAM: Something in a yarmulke, perhaps?

MATT: "I was thinking - "

TRAVIS: A yarmulke?

MATT: And she whips out what looks like this fancy engraved leather cap with two straps on the side and just (shoomf) right over your head. It kind of folds everything in, the straps just go very long and dangle there.

LAURA AND ASHLEY: (laugh)

MARISHA: Yes! Yes!

MATT: She takes them and snaps them underneath - To where these two little danglies are dangling from under the chin. And it just has these really intricate flower patterns punched into the leather all around.

SAM: I love it, Grog. I think you look great.

TRAVIS: (stutters)

SAM: We don't have a mirror here?

MATT: "I think it speaks of the seasons."

TRAVIS: Is it over my ears?

MARISHA: Is it like one of those old-school leather helmets?

MATT: It looks almost like the old football helmets.

MARISHA: Oh, football! Yeah. Okay! Cool.

TRAVIS: I mean, I don't know, does it do anything?

MATT: "It looks masculine. You wouldn't believe. Here, let me show you!" And she brings up a small mirror.

TRAVIS: (screams)

(everyone else laughs)

MATT: "Exactly. Men will fear you walking down the road, my - "

TRAVIS: No, please, more like - a bit more like war, death, battlefield. More aggressive. This is a bit more like sheep-herder. Here you go.

MATT: "Well, all right. Death. Battle. Aggressive."

SAM: Maybe something with spikes?

MATT: "Spikes. Spikes… let me see what I can do."

MARISHA, LAURA, AND ASHLEY: (laugh)

MATT: And she runs off down the way, gets into a bag and you start hearing things going (tink, thud) something rolls over - "Ah, shit!"

ASHLEY: (laughs)

MATT: Eventually she comes out. "This is less of a hat and more of a half-helmet, but maybe it'll do." And she pulls forth what looks like this very wide metal brim, almost in a swish shape to a point in the front.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Conquistador's helmet?

MATT: Yeah, it kind of looks like a conquistador's helmet. But it's only the front, so it's almost like a rhinoceros horn -

TRAVIS: Oh!

MATT: - that sticks up to a point.

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: And the rest are just buckles to the back of the head, so it's just a giant metallic groove for the front.

TRAVIS: I'll take it. I don't even care if it fits.

LIAM AND MARISHA: (laugh)

MATT: "Oh, that's what I like to hear."

TRAVIS: How much is it?

MATT: "This will be 50 gold."

LAURA: (gasps)

TRAVIS: Is the point very sharp?

MATT: "Try it yourself."

TRAVIS: And I reach up and I… hit it with my finger.

MATT: It's all right. It can be sharpened. It's more for decor. It's not meant to slice somebody in half.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it could be sharpened?

MATT: "Well, I mean, what are you intending to do with this hat? (titters)"

TRAVIS: Uh, nothing, just look sharp.

(all groan)

MATT: "I can do that for you, my big muscley man."

LIAM: That is the very ceiling of intelligence of his.

MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Oh, see that sweet jam I just dropped there.

SAM: I did, that was a good line.

TRAVIS: Write that in a notebook somewhere.

TALIESIN: We'll be cleaning that off the floor for ages.

MATT: So after about five minutes or so, she grinds down with what materials she has to a little more - it does mess with some of the polish on the very tip of the metal, but it does come to a more solid point. "Be careful with that."

TRAVIS: So is it one piece or is there a strap on the back or it just goes (foonk)?

MATT: It goes on and then straps tight in the back to fit your head.

TRAVIS: Beautiful.

LAURA: It's basically like a unicorn?

MATT: Kind of.

TRAVIS: Rhino.

MATT: It's like a big old rhino horn that curls upward to a point there.

LIAM: Wow. Wow.

MATT: It looks a little ridiculous.

MARISHA: I'm so excited for the art!

TRAVIS: What do you think? Hold on. What do you think?

SAM: Wow. I mean, your silhouette is magnificent. Imposing.

LIAM: Is this your variant fighting costume?

ASHLEY: Oh, boy.

TRAVIS: Am I fearsome?

SAM: You are. You are. We should go to a silhouette artist after this and get something drawn for this.

TRAVIS: They have those?

SAM: They do, they cut it out.

TRAVIS: Milady, you are a master of your trade.

ASHLEY: Oh, boy.

MATT: "Well. So they tell me."

SAM: Our mom only gave us 60 gold to spend. Could you give us both hats for 60? We're brothers.

(all laugh)

SAM: He - something went wrong with him at birth.

MATT: Make a deception check with disadvantage.

SAM: With disadvantage?!

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Doesn't matter.

SAM: Well, would a one be bad?

(all laugh)

MATT: Deidre goes, "(laughs) You silly, silly tiny man - No, seriously. We have a price agreed upon. Pay it."

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I got it. I got 50 gold of my own.

SAM: All right. 20 from me, 50 from him. We'll take them both.

MATT: "Ooh, all up front? All right. It'll be ready for you shortly." She takes the coin. "Thank you for the patronage. Return here in about… ooh, an hour, and the hat shall be prepared for you, sir - what's your name?"

SAM: Thank you, Deidre. My name's Scanlan Shorthalt.

MATT: "Scanlan Shorthalt. All right, come soon."

SAM: See you soon.

TRAVIS: Can I hit my head on the doorway on the way out?

MATT: (shoomp)

LAURA AND MARISHA: (laugh)

MATT: (creak) You have to kind of pull it out. Yeah. You leave a nice big groove.

TRAVIS: It is nice, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay, good.

MATT: (laughs) All right, eventually you all gather again back at the hall of the Slayer's Take. You guys have just settled in and are free to continue any discussion you like as you see Scanlan and Grog come in. Say, you've since retrieved your hat with your various wonderfully-crafted accoutrements.

TRAVIS: 'Sup, bitches.

SAM: Look at that.

LAURA: Wow.

ASHLEY: Whoa.

TRAVIS: What happened?

SAM: Look at that.

ASHLEY: (gasps) Ohh…

TRAVIS: I know, right? Wait for it.

LIAM: (laughs)

LAURA: Whoa. Grog, you're so monstrous.

ASHLEY: What? Grog, that is so scary.

MARISHA: That's like another 12 inches to you.

TRAVIS: I know.

MARISHA: You look so tall.

TRAVIS: It, like, changes my whole battle strategy. I'm now literally the point of the spear.

ASHLEY: (gasps) You're so scary.

TALIESIN: How have we lived with this idiot?

TRAVIS: (laughs) I'm a sea monster!

ASHLEY: (roars)

TRAVIS: I'm like the most wicked narwhal of all time!

MARISHA: (giggles) Yes.

TRAVIS: Give me a pool! (laughs)

ASHLEY: Can I try it on?

TRAVIS: Yeah, you want to?

TRAVIS: (laughing) I put it on Pike's head.

ASHLEY: Whoa, it's so heavy.

(all but Taliesin laugh)

TALIESIN: What is the world coming to?

TRAVIS: Is it as tall as she is?

MATT: You can see the bottom of her mouth.

ASHLEY: Oh, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, look. Wait, turn around 180 degrees and then run as fast as you can.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah, go! Go! Go! Go, Pike! Go, go!

LAURA: (clapping) Go, Pike! Go, Pike! Go, Pike!

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

TALIESIN: (groans)

EVERYONE ELSE: (laughs)

ASHLEY: Nine.

MATT: Nine. You go running straight out of the door -

LAURA: No!

MATT: You guys are like, “Oh, no no no, Pike!” She's already out the door, over the stairs (boof boof boof boof), outside of the hall.

(all make sounds of dismay)

MARISHA: Oh no, Pike!

TRAVIS: Oh no.

LAURA: Oh no!

ASHLEY: I'm okay!

(all laugh)

MATT: You guys rush out to go catch her and the helmet is actually embedded partway into the ground and she's kind of -

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: And she's just laughing.

ASHLEY: (laughing) Grog, get me out of this helmet.

TRAVIS: I pick her up by the feet. That was excellent. (giggles)

ASHLEY: As he's holding me up like that I try to stab him with it.

TRAVIS: I yank it off of her head and put her back on the ground.

LIAM: Vax has been laughing hysterically, giggle fits, clutching his ribs the entire time. And then is there any of the staff here? Anyone that's here? Anyone else?

MATT: You haven't seen Mertin. Vanessa doesn't seem to have left.

LIAM: What about underlings?

MATT: I mean, there are a few individuals here that are part of the guildhall. It's - the hierarchy here is more like the few that run it, and then everyone else comes and goes as they please.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah, come here, you. Do you have a tub? Do you have a bath? Look at me. Do you have a bath? I need a bath.

MATT: "You look pretty rough."

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: "Yeah. We could - we got a washroom in the back, if you need it."

LIAM: Is it hot? I feel like I need it to be hot.

MATT: "You get what you get. It's water, buddy."

LIAM: Okay. That's perfect, thank you. Grog, put that hat on again.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, hold on. (foomp)

LIAM: (laughs hysterically) All the way down the hall to take a bath.

SAM: It's crazy - did you guys get him drunk or something?

TALIESIN: I don't know what you people did, but…

ASHLEY: Well, he just…

TRAVIS: People respond to fear differently.

SAM: I guess so.

LAURA: He's gone insane.

MARISHA: He might have saw the face of a god.

SAM: Whatever.

TRAVIS: He did?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Crazy.

ASHLEY: Yeah. The head of -

TRAVIS: By the way, why is he covered in bloodbath?

ASHLEY: I think that was part of the -

MARISHA: Ritual? Communion?

ASHLEY: Ritual.

MARISHA: Talking?

ASHLEY: Getting to know his new god.

TRAVIS: Did he kill a lot of people?

LAURA: Obviously.

ASHLEY: Maybe he had to. I don't know.

TRAVIS: He did?

LAURA: So many, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

LAURA: Yeah. It was a giant battle.

TRAVIS: Like, how many on two hands?

LAURA: Like at least this many. That's more than six.

TRAVIS: That's a legendary amount.

LAURA: I know.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Pike.

LIAM: Somewhere deep in the building, far away:

LIAM: This is not hot!

MATT: The gruff individual chuckles. "Heh. It never is." I need you to make a tinkering check.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm sitting with my tea and my tools, trying to ignore these people.

LAURA: Can I heat water up in the fireplace?

MATT: Yeah, yeah, it'll take you a little while.

TALIESIN: Please don't explode.

LIAM: Tink tink tink.

SAM: When I delivered the materials to him -

TALIESIN: Oh, Jesus H. Fucking Christ.

MARISHA: Oh no, Taliesin…

SAM: Could I have inspired him at all, when I delivered the materials?

TALIESIN: Please.

MATT: Sure.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: Please inspire.

SAM: I will inspire - oh my god, it's not even worth it.

TALIESIN: (muffled) Please inspire. Do it. Do it, you bloody gnome!

SAM: Okay. So when I delivered everything, I just sang him a little song to inspire him. And I sang, "Percy's gun, won't you come and kill up all the dragons?"

(others join in) Percy's gun, won't you come, won't you come?

ASHLEY AND LIAM: Percy's gun!

(all laugh)

MATT: Oh my god. All right, take your d10.

LAURA: Ten! Ten! Ten!

LIAM: Do it! Do it!

TALIESIN: Better!

MARISHA: Oh my god, it's a 10!

SAM: That was a 10.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: I get excited. Sorry.

LIAM: Pretty good song.

TALIESIN: Proficiency, tinkering, plus the -

MATT: Well, your proficiency is what you get with the roll and then it's your dex bonus.

TALIESIN: Okay, so proficiency, dex, okay, thank you, god. (muttering) That's 11…

LIAM: (hums Black Hole Sun)

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 23. What did you roll naturally?

SAM: A two.

TALIESIN: Two.

LIAM: (laughs)

LAURA: Whoa.

SAM: Plus 10.

MATT: Ah.

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Plus 10.

TALIESIN: Made it 12.

MATT: Wow. All righty.

TALIESIN: It's not complicated, but I've got a good design, and it has two nifty things.

MATT: What are the nifty things?

SAM: Fingers.

TALIESIN: It doesn't actually have fingers. It's a mitt - it's a mitt piece, strap-on, it can lock the thumb and lock the hand so you can open it, lock, close it, lock. It's got little flip-locks.

MATT: Mm-hmm.

TALIESIN: You can detach the hand -

SAM: Ooh.

TALIESIN: - and put a pick spike on for mining. Like a mining punch.

LIAM: Is it like Young Frankenstein?

(mechanical sound effects)

TALIESIN: It's more Dustin Hoffman “Hook”, but, you know.

MARISHA: Oh, sure.

LAURA: Oh, that's nice.

MARISHA: I was thinking Go-Go-Gadget Finger.

TALIESIN: Because it's got the click, pull, click.

MATT: Right.

TALIESIN: I can do it with all these things. I can graph it. So.

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Reasonable. It's not pretty.

MATT: It takes you a few hours and gets you into the early parts of the evening, but you do manage to go ahead and complete it. You manage to get it finished up and you're pretty proud of your work, actually, and you feel - the whistle you're still doing as you do the final bits, you realize is the song that Scanlan sang for you, just looping in your head. It happened to push you through your work and get your final piece completed.

TALIESIN: I also carved a little message inside that will not matter unless it actually becomes pertinent.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: You don't get to know until you ask offscreen.

SAM: You don't know.

LAURA: (laughs) Ohhh.

MATT: Okay. I'm excited. Okay.

MARISHA: That's right, DM.

TRAVIS: That never happens.

MATT: (laughs) Try me. Okay. Do you go and deliver it?

TALIESIN: I do go and deliver it.

MATT: Okay. As the sun begins to set in Vasselheim, you make your way back over to the Braving Grounds, which as you look across, too, this dark - as the night goes dark, the Braving Grounds itself has a whole different life to it. There are so many forges and smelters going that there's - most buildings have this bright orange glow through the ceiling and these various openings where fumes and smoke and exhaust are sent up from the various production constructs and such. It has this very luminescent look in comparison to a lot of the city. It's very interesting. It reminds you of the deep, deep portions of Kraghammer, where most of the actual fire and melted rock was being smelted and gathered and heated. So you make your way to the hovel. The roof workers are no longer there, and the door is closed.

TALIESIN: (knocks) Victor? I've got your hand.

MATT: "(muffled) I'm sleeping."

TALIESIN: Do you want your hand?

MATT: "(muffled) You want me to sleep?"

TALIESIN: I don't see why they're mutually exclusive.

MARISHA: (laughs)

MATT: You hear (scraping sound) a bunch of different locks fiddling. (series of clicks) (fwoosh) And the door opens and you see Victor, clean-faced for the first time you've really seen him before, and he has a nightcap which sort of (foomf) in front of his face, with a little puffball at the end. He's like, "I told you. I was trying - oh! Hey. (hesitantly) Percival?"

TALIESIN: Yes, that's quite good. I love your hat.

MATT: "Thank you. It's comfy to sleep in."

TALIESIN: It looks it.

MATT: "Did you bring my hand?"

TALIESIN: I did. I grabbed your hand and I will show you. It is very special.

MATT: "Come in! Come in! (grunts)" And opens the door. You see he's wearing this long nightgown that is covered in patches and tears in it. Most of it has been turned black through soot, but the cap is perfect. Perfect condition.

TALIESIN: I have a special set of pajamas myself, so I understand.

MATT: "They are comfortable." As he walks in, still bandaged on the arm, you can see there's a small kettle of tea set by the small fireplace right there. It's a tiny little table and a tiny little stool that he's just kind of sitting on right there. And he goes and he reaches over for the kettle. "(groans)" Tries to pick up the cup and just pours the tea into it.

TALIESIN: (alarmed stuttering) I'm going to stop and attach and begin strapping this.

MATT: "(confused stuttering)"

TALIESIN: Let me show you how this - it attaches like this.

MATT: "Ooh."

TALIESIN: Here are the two switches. (clicking) And -

MATT: "(giggles)"

TALIESIN: - for your mine.

MATT: "Eh? Oh."

TALIESIN: I grab, hit the button, twist, pull.

MATT: "Oh? Eh? I just got that!"

TALIESIN: And I get the spike and attach it.

MATT: "Ohhh."

TALIESIN: Remove it, put the hand back on. Tea?

MATT: "(chuckles) (click) (excited laughter) Tea?"

TALIESIN: Sure. Why not? Always say yes.

MARISHA: (laughs)

MATT: "Need another cup. (grunts)" He stands up and goes over, still holding the kettle and splashing everywhere, and he's flipping through cabinets and knocking pieces of glass out. "Ah! Found it." Pulls out another little ceramic cup and pours the tea in, sets it down. (chink, click) "(cackles) To new hands!"

TALIESIN: To new hands.

SAM: That's a great toast.

MATT: It is pungent. It is bitter. It has been steeped way too long.

ASHLEY: Gunpowder tea.

MATT: But it definitely cleans out the sinuses. And there is a hint of gunpowder to the flavoring. You get the sense that pretty much everything in this room is marinated in some way, shape, or form to be flammable.

TALIESIN: (hoarsely) Victor.

(all laugh)

MATT: "It can put hair on your balls."

TALIESIN: Ohhh, probably. Has a woman been by to buy black powder? (coughs) Has a woman been by?

MATT: "Not in, uh, weeks, maybe."

TALIESIN: Weeks?

MATT: "Did you make her hand, too?"

TALIESIN: I did not. Do you know where she goes?

MATT: "No. She paid well, though."

TALIESIN: Did she? What did she pay?

MATT: "Are you guys in a club now? How many people want black powder? Tell me! Tell them! Bring them more. I could use money."

(others laugh)

TALIESIN: How much black powder did she buy, Victor?

MATT: "Uh… (mutters to himself) (click, click)"

TALIESIN: Only counts to two. I'm so sorry.

(all laugh)

MATT: "Maybe… 12 hogsheads worth?"

ASHLEY: Whoa.

TRAVIS AND MARISHA: Oh, shit.

TALIESIN: Really? And how often does she come by?

MATT: "She only come by once.

TALIESIN: Okay. (sighs) Thank you. I'm so pleased. I may stop by one last time before I leave town, just to say goodbye. Thank you.

MATT: "Please do! I have more tea. Many different flavors. This is, I call, dark roast."

TALIESIN: It… certainly scalded something. Thank you. That was very lovely and that was very charming and I unfortunately have business in the -

MATT: "I want to try the other one before you go."

TALIESIN: One more and then I must go, thank you.

MATT: "(click, creak) Come on, need this, too."

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

MATT: "(creak, click) (cackles)"

TALIESIN: (uncertain laughter)

MATT: (thunk) He sticks it into the wooden stool and the table. Kind of breaks the wood and snaps it. "Oh. (cackles)"

TALIESIN: Remember that it's attached to bone. You can still break your arm, so be gentle.

MATT: "Yes. Thank you!"

TALIESIN: Thank you. Good night! Have a lovely evening.

MATT: "Good night!"

SAM: Aah.

TALIESIN: Good night. Aah. Pleasure, as always. Thank you.

MATT: "(slurps)"

TALIESIN: I leave in a little bit of a panic.

MATT: You leave and he's just sitting there staring at this long chisel point, going, "(quiet cackling)"

SAM: His ring.

MARISHA: (laughs)

MATT: The door slowly closes behind you.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: A fighter is born.

MARISHA: Yes, yeah, just give him an anime weapon.

TALIESIN: There's a - yeah, okay. We're sticking around for a day?

SAM: I assume so. I don't know. We're going to spend the night, at least.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a long walk before I come back and I'm going to walk by the Raven Queen temple and just… peek inside.

MATT: Okay. You make your way past the Quad Roads. At this point at night the whole clientele has shifted. Most people coming here - you hear laughter, you hear music. The Quad Roads is the New Orleans of the town, comparatively. It's still nowhere near as rambunctious as many places you've been, but for what seems during the day to be a rather dour and serious business type city, the Quad Roads is where the celebration of humanity hits when the evening hours hit. So you come by and there's some taverns that are open. You see, to a certain extent, what even appears to be an adult entertainment district.

LAURA: (laughs sarcastically)

MATT: You make your way beyond -

LIAM: (clears throat) Ring-a-ding-ding.

MATT: It's the oldest profession. You make your way all the way to the outskirts of the Duskmeadow, and there, amongst the just barely peeking through the cloudline starlight, the looming dark structure that is Raven's Crest.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to gently open the door and peek inside and see if anybody's inside.

MATT: Okay. You go ahead and push the door open. (creak) Doesn't appear to be anybody there.

TALIESIN: I walk in just for a moment and take a look around.

MATT: Okay. You walk in. (clicking footsteps) At this dark hour, looking around, the obsidian-type walls are translucent glass on the other side, though you can barely make out through the material the details of the outside world, due to the lack of light across the cityscape. Especially here in Duskmeadow, in which the magical lantern light that illuminates the city streets are relatively sparse on this side of Vasselheim. You take a few more steps in, (clicking footsteps) footsteps echoing across the long, thin, dark material of the floors. (creak, thud)

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: Door closes behind you.

TRAVIS: (quietly) What would - why would you do this?

LIAM: Said the T. rex.

TALIESIN: I'm going to gently look around and slowly back up and see if I can see anyone.

TALIESIN: Hello? Hello?

MATT: (echoing) Hello… hello… hello.

TALIESIN: What do I have to pay to fix this?

MATT: (echoing) This… this… this… this.

TALIESIN: I leave.

MATT: (thump-crash) You hear the sound of some sort of low, distant hit and a rumble, and you see a distant light appear in a chamber just beyond the walkway, just faint enough to illuminate and give the presence of some sort of life or movement about a hundred or so feet ahead of you.

TALIESIN: I walk briskly towards it.

MATT: You enter the next chamber, where you see the interior of this structure is ivory-white bone and glass, with a blue hint, very much resembling the interior of a very naturally, beautifully-carved ice cavern. There is a stairway that ascends, as well as other hallways that lead out from the central nerve center of the lower floor of the main structure. As you walk into this central chamber, you see, ever so faintly, at the very top of the stairs, a pair of feet (footsteps) walk and disappear up the stairs.

TALIESIN: I'm going to charge after them.

MATT: Okay. You go running up the stairway. (thud thud) You get to the top, and you can see at the very top of the stairs a dark wooden door with a dark iron rim and what appears to be a large hanger or handle or knocker bolted to it and it (boof) just closes as you come underneath the top of the archway and up the stairs.

TALIESIN: I knock.

MATT: (doosh) Once?

TALIESIN: Three times.

MATT: (doosh doosh) With each hit, you can hear the reverberation of the echo of the knock through a much larger chamber beyond. As soon as you release the actual door knocker, the door (thump-crash, creak) just creaks open ever so slightly into a very, very dark chamber. You can see very, very little in here, other than the basic outline of what looks to be a little bit of floor, some sort of a smooth, glassy surface that refracts just a little bit of light that makes it through what looks to be some sort of broken-up glass dome-type structure above you. You can't make out much beyond that. It's very dark in here.

TALIESIN: Hello? Please. (sighs) Something terrible has happened. I don't understand how these games work. I need help to fix something. Something terrible has happened! You obviously care little for this world. I start to back out.

MATT: As you step out of the room, you hear a whisper come from beyond the chamber, within the darkness. It says, "Is it yourself you wish to fix or something more?"

TALIESIN: I don't think I can be fixed. There is something broken in the world.

MATT: "Then come. Let us talk."

TALIESIN: …I don't understand how these things work. I'm so sorry. I - where do you wish me to go?

MATT: "Have faith."

TALIESIN: (disbelieving laugh)

MATT: "Step in. Join me."

TALIESIN: (sighs) …I strip.

TRAVIS: (gasps)

TALIESIN: And put it aside.

SAM: Put “it” aside?

TALIESIN: Put my clothes in the corner.

SAM: Oh. You're gonna jump her, eh?

TALIESIN: You're filthy. And I go into the pool.

MATT: All right. As you step into the chamber, freezing cold as your toes -

TALIESIN: We're cold people.

MATT: - your legs, your whole body eventually finds itself stepping into this thick, freezing liquid. You hear the whisper in your ears just as your head reaches the level of the blood, that says, "Come. Come to me with your questions." Just as your head goes beneath the surface.

TALIESIN: (sighs) We're doing this.

MATT: You're underneath and in darkness, feeling around the thick material, kind of just swishing your fingers around, but amongst the liquid, you still hear the whisper again in your ear: "Come. Bring your questions."

TALIESIN: And I swim down until it's uncomfortable.

MATT: You swim downward and you touch the bottom of the pool. You reach a somewhat concave, smooth floor to the pool.

TALIESIN: I'm going to head to the surface. I don't know what's…

MATT: You head to the surface. There's no surface. It just keeps going.

TALIESIN: (sighs) I do not do well with this.

MATT: You do not. You begin to panic.

TALIESIN: Yes, I do.

MATT: You begin to reach around and try to swim up and find the surface, but it just keeps going. The liquid's thick and it's hard to pull through, and you can't open your eyes, and you can't see anything, and the iron-like flavor is starting to find its way to the inside of your mouth as it's seeping through your nose and your ears. You begin to panic even further as the cold is starting to take and you feel your muscles beginning to shake and seize from the onset of hypothermia. You begin to head to the bottom of the pool again, and this time, you crack your head on the bottom in the middle of your stupor, and you reach up and scream in pain. As you do, the blood fills your lungs and you begin to feel yourself drown. You begin to shake and convulse as you begin to try to find a way to force it out of your body and you can't. And at that moment, where all of a sudden you realize that this is it. This is the end. This is how the tale of Percival comes to an end. The sensation goes warm again. And it's like all that cold energy goes away, and you're now swimming in water, then air, and the pain subsides, and you're breathing normally. But you still stand in darkness, and you hear these distant footsteps. (clicking footsteps) Sourceless. No light, just shadow. And you look around over your shoulder and then right behind you, you see immediately a white porcelain face, the head is just standing there amongst the shadow.

TALIESIN: (takes deep breaths) Do you know what I've done?

MATT: "I've watched."

TALIESIN: I have questions.

MATT: "Then ask them."

TALIESIN: First, is - can we stop it? Can we stop what's been released? Is there something I can do?

MATT: "Many things are released in this world. Many terrible, many wonderful. Many things. Ask the right questions."

TALIESIN: Did it choose me because I was broken, or did it break me?

MATT: The mask, which has not shown any expression at this point, pulls back a little bit from you and almost seems to grow in size. It's strange; the proportion seems to stay the same, but suddenly your vision shifts and you realize, no, it's farther away from you and is just suddenly immense, like your visual focus just changes and your whole perspective suddenly causes you to lose sense of scale and balance. The voice comes in, this time louder: "You were always broken, Percival. And you were preyed upon, just as it preys upon others, and will continue to do so until finally destroyed."

TALIESIN: Can it be fixed?

MATT: "Perhaps. Your deeds will guide your path to salvation or damnation. The choice is yours. You skirt that line still."

TALIESIN: But the first deed is so… there's so much, and I don't think any of them see it. I don't - I want it to die before anybody sees it. Can you help?

MATT: "I've already helped, Percival. Do not think the path that you and your allies walk goes unseen. There are many of those in this world that represent the will of us, just as there are those who represent the will of those that combat us and always have. There are a great many deeds ahead of you. It's your choice to take them. Just know: should you not watch yourself, you may not find yourself on our side."

TALIESIN: I know. There is nowhere I can look for healing? Other than deeds? I like to fix things.

MATT: "All life is inherently broken from the start, Percival. Take solace in that. There is no perfection in life. Otherwise, what would be the purpose of death? It's to try to find ways to better yourself before the end that gives us purpose. You are all broken, but also understand - " At this point, her voice gets very deep and very resonant. "Mortals can achieve great things. I did." And the mask pulls back into the shadows and suddenly (gasp, cough) you begin coughing, finding your way to the surface, pouring blood out of your mouth and coughing and eventually you find your way over, breathing heavily, to the side of the pool and (grunt) pull yourself onto the side. (cough) Cough the rest of it up. A little bit of moonlight peeks through, and you can see the beams refracting through the purples and reds and blues and just hints of specks of light that just shimmer across the surface of this dark, glass-like floor.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take my sword and I'm going to very carefully scrape my body clean of the blood, as much as I can, and I'm going to take the back of my shirt and clean my hair off as much as I can. I'm going to take a vial of the blood in the pool. One tiny bit.

MATT: You do so.

TALIESIN: I'm going to put my clothes back on… and I'm going to cast Hex on myself for my walk home and banish it before I come in the door.

MATT: Okay. All righty. So, as Percival finally wanders in, is there anything else anyone wants to achieve before the evening's done?

SAM: I'd like to go to the Raven Queen.

(all laugh)

SAM: No.

LIAM: Are we next morning, or we're still evening, at this point?

MATT: We're still evening at the moment, if there's anything else you wish to achieve. Otherwise -

LAURA: I've been slowly heating water and giving it to Vax to put in his bath.

MATT: You do manage to draw a comfortable bath for your brother and wash him clean.

LAURA: I don't wash him! I just give him the fucking water.

MATT: You aid him in washing himself clean. So you specify.

LIAM: Thanks, man. Thanks, man.

TRAVIS: Do we see Percy when he comes in?

MATT: It's going to be late.

TALIESIN: I'm going to walk quiet and late and go tinker on a little thing for a minute until I pass out.

MATT: Okay. You do notice Percy enter. Looks a little frazzled, but doesn't seem to -

LAURA: Do I see any of the blood? Passive perception?

LIAM: You're in the tubby town, though.

MATT: Make a perception check. I want you to make a dexterity check.

MARISHA AND TALIESIN: (groan)

LIAM: Sorry, Taliesin.

SAM: You've got him.

LIAM: Rolled high.

LAURA: 32.

SAM: You've got it.

TALIESIN: 32?!

LIAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, what the - I couldn't have rolled that. Like, that would've been a natural 20, would have been the only way around that.

MATT: You see, just faintly behind one of his ears and at the edge of his collar on his coat, just a bit of familiar crimson, and a look of… a distant stare that is familiar. All right. Do you all wish to rest for the evening?

SAM: No, I would like to take 12 hours to read my book.

MATT: Okay, so the first 12 hours are completed, but you do not sleep?

SAM: No.

LIAM: It's a page-turner.

MARISHA: (laughs)

MATT: All righty.

SAM: Lots of centerfolds.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Pretty pictures.

TRAVIS: Don't be stingy, share those with me.

MATT: Written by John Cleese. It's a wonderful piece.

LAURA: I also spend a lot of time that night reading, but I'm reading the book about the Raven Queen.

MATT: Okay. Doing Raven Queen research.

LAURA: Pretty much have it memorized at this point, with the amount that I've read that fucking book.

MATT: Yeah, fair enough. All right. You guys all find yourself to rest, except for Scanlan, who takes a point of Exhaustion for going through the night without sleep.

SAM: I don't know what that is, but someone will tell me.

TRAVIS: You'll find out.

MATT: Yeah. Basically, it means any ability checks, any skill checks until you get a full night's rest are at disadvantage, yeah. All right, as you find yourselves to rest, most of you the morning light comes, greeting you to a new day, and we're going to go ahead and take a break. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. Reminder, once again: Loot Crate, our awesome sponsor, check them out at lootcrate.com/criticalrole, enter criticalrole - one word - to get $3 off a subscription. We'll be back here in a minute, guys.

MARISHA: And get your Joe Mad poster!

MATT: Joe Mad poster!

MARISHA: Right now, pre-order.

SAM: Wait, there's a giveaway at the break, I think.

LAURA: Oh, there's a Loot Crate giveaway.

MARISHA: Oh, and giveaway!

MATT: For the DX boxes, so be active in the chat.

LIAM: And please go check out the Joe Mad poster.

LAURA: It's so sick.

LIAM: Also check out Battle Chasers Night War. It's a beautiful-looking game. I played it today.

LAURA: Also, give your friend a hug. Love each other.

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah, and a high-five.

SAM: Bathe in blood. We'll see you soon.
Break

[Critical Role resumes at 2:22:43]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, guys. So, as we return to the game, the morning comes to you all in Vasselheim as you awake in the Slayer's Take guildhall. A brisk morning, but not too cold. The clouds are actually a little more separate this morning. You get brief moments of blue; it looks like the weather is a little clearer than you're used to seeing in this vicinity. But the day is yours. What do you guys wish to do?

LIAM: What do we need to accomplish here in town? Is there anything we need to finish, or do we want to pick our next destination?

SAM: Do they sell potions and things here in town - No, they don't.

TALIESIN: No, very specifically they don't.

MARISHA: They hate magic.

SAM: Then let's get the hell out of here.

LAURA: Yeah, let's get out.

SAM: There's nothing for us here.

TRAVIS: What about the Feywild?

SAM: Oh, yeah.

MARISHA: We did talk about the Feywild.

TALIESIN: Let's drop off our -

LAURA: Don't tease me about the Feywild.

TRAVIS: Wait, don't you have to pick up something?

TALIESIN: Oh, I already picked it up.

TRAVIS: Not you, you.

SAM: Me?

TALIESIN: Oh, you have a hat.

SAM: I thought we waited for the hat.

MATT: Yeah, he picked up the hat.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit, balls, ass. All right.

SAM: There's the Feywild. There's dropping stuff off at Whitestone. There's Marquet, which something is there in Marquet?

LAURA: Is one of the Vestiges there?

SAM: I don't know, everyone just keeps talking about it.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: There's also - Wait, weren't we going to go to -

MARISHA: One of the Vestiges is in Marquet.

LAURA: Which one?

MARISHA: Hang on. Cabal's Ruin, which is a magic-devouring cloak -

TRAVIS: Hold on, hold on, hold on. Are we alone in this room?

MATT: You guys are right now having breakfast in the guildhall. There's maybe two other individuals in the room. One of them is drunkenly asleep and snoring. The other appears to be going about their business.

TRAVIS: I'm just saying.

MARISHA: (whispering) Okay, I'll speak quietly. There's apparently a magic-devouring cloak who is being worn by the - it's in Ank'Harel. It's being worn by -

LAURA: It's a cloak that devours magic?

MARISHA: - a merchant warrior with a missing eye.

SAM: And there's one in the bottom of the sea somewhere.

LAURA: And there's a really beautiful strong bow in the Feywild.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go to the Feywild! We at least know that place.

TALIESIN: I say we drop everything - we take a pit stop in Whitestone and head towards the Feywild.

MARISHA: So, technically -

TALIESIN: Empty our bags.

MARISHA: - we don't even have to head towards the Feywild. Do you guys remember how I kind of did that thing with Grog's evil sword and kind of banished it away for forever?

TRAVIS: Are we bringing it back?

MARISHA: No.

LAURA: Yeah, to the Dread Emperor's.

MARISHA: Right.

LIAM: Not a good idea, Grog.

MARISHA: No, we're not bringing it back. I can do that with the rest of us.

LAURA: You can banish us to the Dread Emperor's island?

MARISHA: No, it's not like a banishment. I can Plane Shift us wherever we want to go, to an alternate plane.

LAURA: To the Feywild? So we don't even have to find an entrance?

MARISHA: Yeah, we just hold hands and think about it really hard.

TRAVIS: No way.

MARISHA: Yeah. It's druid magic. It's great.

LIAM: And you put us in a safe spot somewhere in there, somehow?

MARISHA: I can take us to where we've been before, to where it's familiar.

LIAM: Have we been there before? I don't know.

MARISHA: Very briefly.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Is it somewhere that you have to have been, or can it be somewhere that we have been.

MARISHA: It is somewhere I am familiar with, I believe, through means - through means that I am familiar…

LAURA: Syngorn is in the Feywild.

SAM: Normally?

LIAM: No, not normally.

LAURA: They transferred the entire city there, so technically, it's a place -

LIAM: I know, but you're saying we've been there, but they just did that recently.

SAM: Grog's been to the Feywild.

MATT: You can specify a target

MARISHA: In general terms.

MATT: In general terms.

MARISHA: Such as “City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of Fire.”

SAM: Oh, is that where we're going?

MARISHA: No.

SAM: Oh. Sounds like fun.

TALIESIN: It does, actually.

MARISHA: If you guys want to go to the Plane of Fire, that's like, a hike and a jump through a hole.

TALIESIN: Ah.

TRAVIS: No, no, not the Plane of Fire. Just the Feywild.

MARISHA: All right. Yeah, I can get us there.

SAM: To the Feywild. How big is the Feywild? Is it like a football field?

MARISHA: It's very big.

LAURA: It's a whole other plane.

SAM: Well, how do - do we know where we're going in the Feywild?

MARISHA: I imagine we'll figure it out once we get there.

TALIESIN: Do I know anything about the Feywild?

MATT: You have no knowledge of the Feywild.

ASHLEY: Would I know anything else?

MARISHA: What about me?

LAURA: Would we have learned something about it in Syngorn?

MATT: You have a general idea of it, somewhat -

MARISHA: Team Half-Elf, yeah.

MATT: Somewhat, just through your learning. You never actually visited there. The Feywild is a near plane, a plane that overlaps this Prime Material Plane. It's a version of the world you live in right now that is shifted and changed in a place where time, distance is relative and shifts. Nature grows rampant and in cases is hard to really expect its direction. Things and entities exist there that prefer to trick and lose wanderers. It's a very strange place where some believe elves initially come from or craft from there, at least.

LIAM: Do the two of us know enough that were you to jump from the same place here, would you necessarily end up in the same spot in the Feywild?

MATT: You have no idea.

LIAM: We don't know. All right.

MATT: You don't know anything about the transition to the Feywild. You just know that certain doors open at certain times, especially with full moons in certain locations, the classic toadstool rings, areas where the moonlight in the realms can be a little thinner and the barrier doors do open, and those are where creatures can transition out or through. You do know it's a place of fey magic, it's tricky, it's difficult to follow.

SAM: Terrible.

LAURA: It sounds awful.

MATT: Very, like, Oberon and Titania. Weird. Interesting.

MARISHA: Question.

MATT: Yes?

MARISHA: Hmm, okay.

SAM: Good question.

MARISHA: It says the Wrath of the Fey Warden is what we're looking for, the bow, and that it now acts as the heart of a cancerous tree, corrupting the verdant land. Is there something I can do, maybe try and…

TRAVIS: Hold on, is our stream up? Are we offline right now?

LUCAS: (muffled, from offscreen) I'm checking. Just wait.

ASHLEY: Hold, please.

LUCAS: It says we're still online. Hang on.

LIAM: Loot Crate. Check out Loot Crate.

SAM: No one can see it.

LAURA: No, it says it's offline.

LIAM: Refresh it.

MARISHA: It says offline?

LIAM: Quit the program and go back in.

TRAVIS: The chat is saying it's off.

LUCAS: No, we're still online.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Tell them to quit and re-login.

SAM: It's back. It's back.

LUCAS: I'm not sure what happened. I'm not sure it even dropped frames on my end.

LIAM: Whoa, we were in the Feywild for a second there.

ASHLEY: Oh, it was crazy.

MATT: You guys missed six episodes. (all make exaggerated sounds of relief) Everything turned out okay.

LAURA: Yay! And we got the warden thing.

LIAM: Dragons are dead.

MARISHA: Guys, I'm so glad we won D&D. We beat it.

LAURA: Yeah, that was the best.

TALIESIN: Roll the credits scroll.

MARISHA: Can I maybe sense a sick tree? You know what? Let's go to Whitestone. Let's go to Whitestone and drop some stuff off.

LAURA: You know, because the more I think about it, I mean, we almost just died many times and the last time we tried to get a Vestige it almost killed us, and maybe we just need a little bit more preparation, maybe?

TALIESIN: Let's empty our bags, let's prepare ourselves, let's - there are certainly stories in the woods of Whitestone of strange happenings, so I'm sure there's probably some connection to the Feywild, and we'll see what happens.

LAURA: Make sure Whitestone is actually preparing something underground just like Westruun.

TALIESIN: Well, we have something.

MARISHA: Yes, they have something underground already.

LAURA: Exactly, but there's a spinning orb of death there.

TALIESIN: Which, to be fair, is probably going to keep a dragon away.

LIAM: But I also think we've earned more than a single day of rest.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: Let's go to Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Let's go to Whitestone.

MARISHA: All right.

ASHLEY: Where's the sea?

SAM: The Ozmit Sea?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: The Ozmit Sea is to the east of you, east-southeast, and that is a wide gulf that separates - from your perspective, looking at me, there's Othanzia, Ozmit Sea, and there's Tal'Dorei right here.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

LIAM: (sneezes)

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Bless you.

LAURA: Bless you.

MARISHA: The Water Ashari live in the Ozmit Sea.

LAURA: Are they like mermaids?

MARISHA: No, I think they've got an island.

ASHLEY: It's also the sea that I sailed.

MARISHA: Really?

LAURA: (gasps)

SAM: Ohhh.

TALIESIN: Really?

LAURA: In your roving pirate days.

ASHLEY: I know it well.

MARISHA: How familiar are you with the sea?

ASHLEY: I'm pretty familiar with it.

TRAVIS: What if we go there?

SAM: We could.

LAURA: Wait, could I see the list of Vestiges?

SAM: The one in the bottom of the sea is called Whisper, right?

LAURA: Whisper?

MARISHA: A blade forged from metal pulled from the Far Realm, it was the center of many dark rituals.

SAM: It now lies at the bottom of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship, The Shrew.

LAURA: (sing-song) The Shrew?

ASHLEY: (deep voice) The Shrew.

SAM: A storm three hundred years ago near an island of glass. Anyone know about the island of glass?

LAURA: Have you heard about an island of glass?

MARISHA: Have I heard about an island of glass? Have Pike or I heard of an island of glass?

MATT: I'll have both of you guys make history checks.

MARISHA: All right. I rolled a natural one.

MATT: You barely know what glass is right now.

MARISHA: Guys, water isn't glass, that's stupid.

TALIESIN: I would have a theory as to what it was.

TRAVIS: She rolled a 20.

MARISHA: You rolled a 20? Oh, go Pike!

ASHLEY: Not a natural 20. Total.

MATT: Explain.

TALIESIN: Should I roll to figure out that this is probably an active volcano?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

TALIESIN: I'm down.

LIAM: Come on, man.

TALIESIN: No! Wow.

SAM: Onesies.

MARISHA: Team ones. Whoo.

MATT: Natural one?

TALIESIN: Natural one.

MATT: Whoo.

LIAM: Snitch.

MATT: Doesn't quite come to you, but what it could be. The idea of a volcano possibly comes to mind, but -

TALIESIN: I'm distracted.

MATT: Yeah. You have not been there, you haven't seen it, but some of your crewmates while you were traveling aboard your ship for that five, six-month period, a couple of them did mention something about on the sea, a mirage-like island that glistens in the distance, but they said to avoid it, said it was dangerous.

SAM: Did they say where it was?

MATT: No.

SAM: Damn it.

ASHLEY: Heard many tales of The Shrew.

LAURA: Yeah?

ASHLEY: Yeah, the ship lost at sea.

MATT: You know of The Shrew, you definitely know of The Shrew.

ASHLEY: All sailors know of The Shrew.

MARISHA: What's the story of The Shrew?

SAM: Come on, sailor.

ASHLEY: It's just - there was a storm three hundred years ago.

LAURA: Near an island of glass?

ASHLEY: Near an island of glass.

MARISHA: It was really bad.

ASHLEY: And The Shrew just didn't sail on.

SAM: It was tamed.

ASHLEY: It was tamed.

LAURA: (laughs) I was waiting for it to -

MATT: Come around again? Yeah, it was good.

LAURA: Come around, yep.

TALIESIN: Taming of the Shrew fits, yeah.

ASHLEY: Good tale, but we'll get there one day.

MATT: What's the plan?

LIAM: Whitestone.

SAM: Yes, Whitestone.

TRAVIS: Can I make one other suggestion? Emon… go take Thordak right now.

SAM: Good call…

TRAVIS: Yeah, one taker?

MARISHA: You know what, Grog?

LAURA: It's a good plan, Grog.

LIAM: It's cheeky.

MARISHA: We will put that in our back pocket and we will think about it.

LIAM: That helmet is really something else.

LAURA: You could really do something terrible to him with that thing.

TRAVIS: I'm just saying, I think we have an edge now.

LAURA: I think you're probably right -

SAM: (chuckle) Attaboy.

LIAM: That's technically true, yes.

TALIESIN: You do… have a point.

LAURA: But let's make sure that Whitestone is safe before we do such a thing.

SAM: Percy, we are in a place that has an airship dock.

TALIESIN: That is true.

SAM: We could go steal an airship.

TALIESIN: We could go steal an airship!

LAURA: We don't need an airship.

MARISHA: We don't need an airship.

LAURA: We have an instant ability to transport anywhere.

SAM: It would be so cool, though.

TALIESIN: Then we wouldn't have to go to Whitestone. It would hold all of our things.

LAURA AND MARISHA: When we kill all the dragons…

TALIESIN: We could hold all of our things on the airship - and I could have cannonades, and it would fire -

LAURA: That will be the first thing we do when Thordak dies -

LIAM: Party on an airship.

LAURA: - is we jump on an airship.

ASHLEY: Party on the airship.

MARISHA: We'll buy it with all of the gold that we've stolen from all the dragons. It'll be great.

TALIESIN: We won't need the airship if the dragons are dead.

LAURA: All the fun has gone out of it.

TRAVIS: What are we doing?

LAURA: We're going to Whitestone.

MARISHA: We're going to Whitestone. (piercing spell noise)

SAM: Before we leave, do you want to sell these stupid white dragon scales?

TALIESIN: No.

SAM: All right, let's go.

LIAM: Let's go to Whitestone.

MARISHA: (repeats piercing spell noise) Through a tree!

MATT: All right, as you guys walk outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall, you find the nearest tree, which you've used before to traverse. As you all step through the portal, Percy and Scanlan look over their shoulder at the distant skyport and see the one airship docked there and think, “One day…”

LIAM: So handsome.

SAM: Someday, it will be ours.

TALIESIN: You'll make a fine sailor.

SAM: Passenger.

LIAM: Swabby.

MATT: You jump through and emerge out the other side. As you step out of the portal, you find yourself jumping out of the center of the Sun Tree.

MARISHA: Can I do something?

SAM: Nope.

MATT: What do you want to do?

MARISHA: While I'm in the tree, can I do something? Like -

TRAVIS: Like kill us all?

MARISHA: No no no. Say they go first. “Go, go, go, go.” And I kind of start teleporting through the tree and while I'm in the Sun Tree I just want to be like, "Hey, boo."

LAURA: (laughs)

MARISHA: I missed you. Have you heard of this whole cancerous tree situation in the Feywild?

SAM: (whispering) You're talking to a tree?

MARISHA: Shh, no. I'm in the middle of the tree. I'm in the tree.

LAURA: You're stuck in the tree?

MATT: As you finish this thought, you hear this sound emerge (vacuum sealing sound) and realize it's the sound of the whole portal you've made closing behind you because it only lasts for six seconds and you should probably get the hell out of the tree.

MARISHA: Aww. I step out of the tree.

ASHLEY: Good try.

MATT: As you step out, a voice goes, "Hey, boo, sorry. (kiss noise)"

(all laugh)

MATT: And it closes behind you.

MARISHA: I'll talk to him later.

MATT: You guys emerge. Due to the time differences, you land here in Whitestone, looking at where the sun is in the sky, it's early afternoon, as opposed to the morning where you guys just stepped away from. There are people in the streets, and you see a few, a little bit of life has returned to this town square, though still, by comparison - there are folks now that are bringing in actual, healthy, looks to be fruits from nearby trees. There's a little bit of trade going on. This is the first real chance you've had to see a little bit of Whitestone coming to life again. As you emerge from the tree, a few individuals nearby stop and look and smile and wave, recognizing you as you approach.

LAURA: Are there any leaves on the Sun Tree yet?

MATT: Actually, no, there are not. There are no leaves on the Sun Tree.

SAM: (quietly) Because it's winter.

LAURA: Whatever.

TRAVIS: We should check with the border patrol.

SAM: There's a border patrol?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: A wolf.

SAM: Oh, the wolf.

TRAVIS: (whistles) I whistle as loud as I can.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: What's his name?

MARISHA: I don't know. Let me find it.

SAM: Oh, boy. Harold?

LAURA: I just want to go find Zahra and give her a hug and say hello and see how she's doing while he's talking.

MATT: You whistle as loud as you can for a little bit. Nothing.

TRAVIS: Must be off doing something (belches) important.

TALIESIN: Quite.

MATT: You head off and, asking around, you find Zahra is actually up in Castle Whitestone right now, just poring through one of the studies of books, and is just currently reading and reading on her own. As you eventually ask around and find your way there, entering the room, you see her with a small set of spectacles at the end of her nose. She takes them off and, "My darling Vex'ahlia!" And comes up and just gives you a big hug and picks you up and sets you down. "I'm so glad to see you're all right."

LAURA: Dear, the dragon arrow you gave me? Killed him. Well, I didn't kill him, actually, with it, but I did a lot of damage.

MATT: "You killed a dragon?"

LAURA: Umbrasyl. Dead. One down.

MATT: "I knew you would."

LAURA: Where's Cashew?

MATT: "I don't know. He's testy these days. I'm sure he's around."

LAURA: I know his name is fucking Kashaw. So he's not there.

MATT: "Probably down in the city somewhere. He's helping where he can. You know broody types."

LAURA: I do know broody types.

MATT: Yes, you do.

LAURA: What are you reading?

MATT: "Oh, I'm just learning about the history of Whitestone and I'm very intrigued as to the actual properties of this stone the entire town is built on. There's a lot of really, really interesting things that can be done with the materials in these mountains."

LAURA: I'm sure you have ideas.

MATT: "I do."

LAURA: I sit down next to her and ask, just catching up, and see if they've spotted any dragons.

MATT: You guys continue your conversation, catching up, letting her know how things happened, and vice versa. You don't get any info that any dragons have come. Apparently, there have been a few other arcane practitioners that have been helping set up some sort of barrier to help, essentially, dissuade attention towards the city. The idea of keeping this place as far off the map as possible, should any prying eyes find their way there. It's in the process of being set up right now.

LAURA: Zahra, how long did it take you to make that arrow?

MATT: "A few weeks."

LAURA: If I were to give you some more money, do you think you could do it again?

MATT: "Probably, based on what - (sighs) if I'm able to use some of the resources here within the castle, maybe."

LAURA: I'll talk to Percy, but I'm sure, if it's for a good cause…

MATT: All right, perhaps I can."

LAURA: All right.

I'll come find you, dear.

MATT: "Wondrous." What else are you guys trying to achieve here?

LIAM: I am trying to find Shaun Gilmore.

LAURA: That's his first name?

SAM: Shaun Gilmore?

MATT AND MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Shaun.

LAURA: Shaun? How did you know that?

MARISHA: He told us.

MATT: He told you guys that a long time ago.

LAURA: I fucking know, I remember.

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Tattooed at the small of his back.

MARISHA: Yeah, he's got a tramp stamp.

ASHLEY: Tramp stamp.

SAM: Can I accompany Vax on this trip?

LIAM: Sure, come on.

SAM: I want to see Gilmore.

LIAM: Let's start asking around town for him.

MATT: You start asking around. You come across a few folks you recognize, you find a few of the guards who helped you with the initial reconstruction of this city and such and asking around. One of the nearby guards takes his helmet off and is like, "First off, I am so excited that you guys are back. I'm so glad you're all safe. I heard that you were off to do some dangerous things."

LIAM: You heard right.

MATT: "Well, great, I'm glad that you've survived. Looking for Mr. Gilmore, he's actually down with the Realmseer. They're inspecting the ziggurat underneath the city, so you could head down there if you wanted to find him."

LIAM: Thank you. I'm not terribly familiar with Whitestone, could you point us in the right direction?

MATT: "It's under the castle."

LIAM: The castle.

MATT: "Yes."

LIAM: Can't miss that.

SAM: Yeah, we've been there before. Yeah, let's go.

LIAM: Let's go.

MATT: He puts his helmet back on. "Thank you again for all that you do." He clicks his heels together and continues walking through the city.

LIAM: All right, yeah.

SAM: I guess we'll head down to the ziggurat.

LIAM: Let's do it.

MATT: Everyone else going with?

TRAVIS: Fuck yeah, let's go.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Yeah.

LAURA: We taking a trip?

TALIESIN: Sure.

MARISHA: Oh, are we all going down to the ziggurat?

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Nothing else to do.

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: All right. You make your way down to the basement area of Whitestone Castle, into the family catacombs, which have been cleaned up and you can see that Cassandra has put a little bit of care into restoring it to what it was before. The tunnel that was carved in has been given a little more support, and as you're making your way down a familiar tunnel, the same tunnel where you had the showdown with Orthax, you hear a few voices from up ahead. Two familiar voices. You hear the echo of some older, gruff, elderly gentleman and a little more rambunctious familiar voice. As they turn the corner, you see them deep in conversation. It's the Realmseer himself hunched forward with his white hair and balding top, turns around, "And it's a great mystery to me that they can put a - Oh, look! They've returned. Vox Machina themselves." Gilmore, at this point, opens his arms, standing and healthy, "My god, I've been waiting for you.

LAURA: (laughs)

ASHLEY AND MARISHA: Aww.

MATT: "And all of you so graciously clean!"

LAURA: You look so healthy, Gilmore!

ASHLEY: Very healthy.

MATT: "Well, I have you to thank for that. Still a ways to go, but -

LIAM: But in two or three weeks, it's not bad. You're looking well.

MATT: "Well, you all have Kima to thank for that. She's been quite attentive to my needs."

MARISHA: How is Whitestone finding you?

MATT: "Curious place, this Whitestone. It's - well, the company's interesting."

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: The Realmseer laughs. He's like, "(chuckles) So I've heard." "(as Gilmore) We've spent a little bit of time looking at this strange oddity beneath the city, and I'm not going to lie to you, it's really confusing. I've a few theories on it, as does the Arcanist, but we're still comparing notes and we don't want to jump to any conclusions, as tests have been inconclusive and rather dangerous so far. However, before anything else goes underway, I believe there's a very important bit of business that we must attend to."

SAM: Business? What business, Gilmore?

MATT: And he walks straight up to Grog and just gives you a big hug.

SAM: Aww.

LAURA: Oh?

MATT: And pats you on the shoulder and is like, "(chuckling) You big lug."

TRAVIS: You… Gilmore.

(all laugh)

MATT: Walks over to you, Pike, and kneels down and gives you a little pinch on the cheek and is like, "Looking as spry and smiley as ever, I see."

ASHLEY: Hello, Shaun.

(more laughter)

ASHLEY: I give him a kiss on the cheek.

MATT: "Ohh."

ASHLEY: (laughs) Ohh.

MATT: He turns to you. "Vex'ahlia, look at you. I hear, if my words say correct, that you folks are a recent dragon-slaying bunch, hmm?"

LAURA: That we are.

MATT: "(chuckles) Good to know." Skips over you.

LAURA: Ohh.

ASHLEY: Save the best for last.

MATT: And goes to Scanlan and goes to ruffle your hair, and goes, "And you, you, my little bardish friend."

SAM: Little?

MATT: "No, you're actually physically little."

SAM: Oh, I know.

MATT: "You are a tinier person. Embrace it! It's what makes you different."

SAM: That's true, I suppose. I suppose. Yes, that's - absolutely. We've been spreading the good word about you and your works.

MATT: "So I've heard from all sorts of interesting folk. I only hope one day to wear clothes as fine as you."

SAM: Oh! That's a nice compliment.

MATT: "Percival."

TALIESIN: Good patron.

MATT: "Thank you for taking me into your home."

TALIESIN: You do nothing but brighten these halls.

MATT: "I'm… happy to keep things lit.(sighs)" At which point, he goes to look towards you. The Realmseer's sitting there tapping his arm; he's like, "(as Eskil) Right, get on with it, we've got work to be done." "(as Gilmore) Shh. You be quiet. These people have saved my life. Keyleth. Sweet Ashari princess.

MARISHA: Hi, Gilmore.

MATT: "You've grown. I can see it in your eyes." He gives you a big hug.

MARISHA: I give him a hug back.

MATT: "Vax."

LAURA: (giggles)

MATT: "Vax'ildan. Light of my eye. Smiling boy."

(all laugh)

MATT: And he walks up and puts his hands across your shoulders and kind of cups your face. "I've missed you most of all." And pulls you in for a big hug and lifts you up off the ground.

LIAM: Oh, hey, you.

LAURA: You're strong enough to - be careful of your wound, Gilmore!

MATT: As he sets you down, he's like, "Ooh, I shouldn't have done that. My apologies."

LIAM: I pat him on the ribs.

MATT: "Don't touch that. It's still very tender."

LIAM: It's fantastic to see you. You're a sight for sore eyes, yourself. We're very happy to see you.

MATT: "My sight is sore, so this works out well. But please, these tunnels are dank and not becoming of us. Dinner should be happening soon and you should join us, now that you've returned, please."

MARISHA: Oh, before dinner, I think we were all just curious on the state of the… ziggurat, as we were calling it.

LAURA: The orb.

MATT: "Let's talk over dinner."

MARISHA: Spinning orb of death, is what we call it.

MATT: "Let's talk over dinner."

MARISHA: All right, yeah, sure.

TRAVIS: Wait, you said you were doing tests on it, right? Did you throw things at it? Did it blow up?

MATT: "That is part of the test. Nothing blew up. Things did go away."

TRAVIS: They went away?

LAURA: They get sucked in, Grog.

MATT: "We'll talk over dinner. I hate to have this discussion without Allura here. I think this would only behoove the conversation if we're all present."

TALIESIN: An excellent argument.

LAURA: We have some delicious and very expensive wine to bust out.

SAM: Oh, yes.

MATT: "(chuckling) Well!"

ASHLEY: Expensive-ass wine.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Expensive-ass wine we could bust out with dinner.

MATT: "Color me intrigued. Well - "

LAURA: Oh, I haven't got to wink in a really long time, you guys. It felt so good.

MARISHA: Back to your old self.

LIAM: Hard life.

MATT: "It was a good wink. Finest in the land. Well, come to the surface, then! This place is dreary."

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "You, too, Eskil." "Aye."

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: (as Eskil) "Too many smiles in this area. I like it. It's jovial. Don't see that around these places too often. It's good to see all of you. Come, now, yes, let's move!" You all eventually make your way back to the surface, to Whitestone.

MARISHA: I go to Vex and Pike and go, Is this a good opportunity for us to break out our formal wear?

ASHLEY: (gasps) Yes!

LAURA: Definitely, dear.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Oh, jeez.

TALIESIN: I genuinely have no idea what you're talking about.

MARISHA: The ladies take, like, 20 minutes.

TRAVIS: Let's be honest, it's two hours.

TALIESIN: 40 minutes.

TRAVIS: Fucking 20 minutes, my ass. On what plane are you right now? (laughs)

LAURA: (laughs)

MARISHA: Not the Feywild. But maybe soon.

ASHLEY: There's magic involved.

TALIESIN: Same plane as the break room. Five minutes is 15. (laughs)

MARISHA: (laughing) Yes, yes, yeah.

TRAVIS: “I'll be 20 minutes.” The next day…

LIAM: On the way out, as we're all walking out, I walk along with Gilmore and I give him just a gentle shoulder. Shoulder to shoulder. And say, It's really good to see you on your feet. It's the best smile I've had in ages.

MATT: "You and me both."

LAURA: While we're getting ready, I would like to talk to Pike about a certain proposal that happened. None of us have addressed it.

ASHLEY: I know, just because I just -

LAURA: What happened?

ASHLEY: What should I do?

LAURA: What did you tell him? Did you tell him yes, did you tell him no?

ASHLEY: I'm just so, you know -

MARISHA: Hang on, what exactly did he say, by the way?

ASHLEY: I just said we'll circle back.

LAURA: We'll circle back?

MARISHA: Circle back.

LAURA: (laughing) How did he take that?

ASHLEY: I think he was fine with it. He just understands that I just -

MARISHA: Treat proposals like we do our dungeons? (laughs) We circle back.

ASHLEY: Isn't that the only way to just treat all things? I guess, I don't know. I don't know.

MARISHA: (giggles)

LAURA: How do you feel about him, Pike?

ASHLEY: I just don't know. I just feel so confused.

MARISHA: I understand that.

ASHLEY: I just - he kind of wears you down a little.

LIAM: (cracks up)

ASHLEY: And there's something there, for him.

MARISHA: I don't know if that's a good reason to say yes, though.

ASHLEY: Oh, I don't know. He's just very charming.

MARISHA AND LAURA: He is very charming.

LAURA: And I noticed, he's becoming more charming.

ASHLEY: Yes, I know!

MARISHA: Yeah, what is with that? I didn't know that was possible.

ASHLEY: How? I feel like he goes to sleep and then the next morning he's like -

ASHLEY AND LAURA: Even more charming!

LAURA: I don't understand it.

ASHLEY: Why is that?

MARISHA: I don't know.

LAURA: Like, every once in a while I look at him and I go:

MARISHA: Yeah, no, and then I feel really -

LAURA: No, but he's small, but at the same time, I'm kind of interested.

MARISHA: Right! And you kind of think about it for a second and you entertain it, and then you feel really gross about yourself.

LAURA: It's like, you feel like - yeah!

ASHLEY: Yes! Yes.

LAURA: But if you're actually interested, then it's not gross at all.

MARISHA: No! Of course it's not gross if you're actually interested.

ASHLEY: I know. I just. (groans) I've had feelings for someone for a long time, but maybe they're slowly fading. I don't know.

LAURA: Wait.

MARISHA: Wait, what?

ASHLEY: I have. I don't know if I feel comfortable talking about it. But it's fine.

LAURA: We don't want to push you, Pike, but you know, it's just us girls here.

MARISHA: I know! And we've been through so many uncomfortable things together.

ASHLEY: (groans)

MARISHA: Most of life is so uncomfortable. Be comfortable right now.

ASHLEY: I just. I don't know. It's still something that I need to think about.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: We understand.

ASHLEY: I'm just.

LAURA: You pray to your Sarenrae about it.

ASHLEY: Okay. (laughs) You do look lovely, though, in your dress.

LAURA: You look beautiful.

MARISHA: You look so cute.

LAURA, ASHLEY, AND MARISHA: (laugh)

ASHLEY: Thanks. I do a twirl.

(more laughter)

MARISHA: I do a little air cantrip to make the skirt poof out.

ASHLEY: Ooh.

LAURA: I tug up my dress.

MARISHA: Hey, do you guys mind tying me up a bit?

LAURA: Of course!

MARISHA: Nice and tight. (grunts)

LAURA: Can you breathe?

MARISHA: (strained) No, but that means it's right.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: All right, I'm good.

TALIESIN: I assume there's clean clothes for everybody in their quarters, anyway?

MATT: Yeah, it's all good.

TRAVIS: I'm wearing the same shit.

(all laugh)

SAM: And the big hat?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: (laughing) To dinner. (shoonk)

TRAVIS: (laughing) Yeah. I paid money for this thing.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to arrange for our stuff to be stowed in the vault.

MATT: Okay. Not a worry. All right, so as the sun sets, you find your way down to the proper dinner table. Gilmore is there, Eskil is there, Cassandra is there…

MARISHA: We look fabulous.

MATT: You guys look fantastic.

SAM: They do.

MARISHA: Yes. We do.

MATT: Fine outfits have been provided for the men, if they wish to wear them, as well. Some do not.

TALIESIN: Oh, I am dressed.

LIAM: I'm dressed, yeah.

SAM: Oh, I'll dress up. I'll dress up for dinner.

MATT: All righty. As you guys sit down, pleasantries are exchanged - (yawns) Pardon me. You catch up a bit with Cassandra. Partway through -

LAURA: Aw, Matt.

MARISHA: (laughs)

MATT: What?

TRAVIS: He needs sleep.

LIAM: E3, y'all.

OTHERS: E3.

TALIESIN: Sit down, have a beer, watch our game.

MARISHA: (laughs) 2 pm.

TALIESIN: (laughs)

MATT: Within the next 15 minutes or so, before food is brought to the table, Allura finally enters in a very, very nice dress, and says, "It is so good to see you all are safe."

MARISHA: Allura!

ASHLEY: Hello.

LAURA: I give her a hug.

MATT: She then gives you a big, wonderful hug.

LAURA: How's Kima? We haven't seen her yet.

MATT: "Well…" She looks over this way and Kima walks in, for the first time you've seen her really out of armor since you first saw her. Her hair is also in similar braids to her side and she herself is wearing a golden dress, though she's kind of like…

TRAVIS: Yeah, I know the feeling.

(all laugh)

MATT: She comes in.

MARISHA: Kima.

MATT: "Hello."

ASHLEY: Oh, you look lovely.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes over and gives her a hug.

MATT: She gives you a hug and goes, "It's good to see you guys. I'm glad you're all right… This feels weird. Does this feel weird? This feels weird."

MARISHA: It's only for a few hours. Don't worry about it.

TRAVIS: What are you wearing?

MATT: "That's what I'm saying! Do I have to wear - he's not wearing anything. Do I have to wear - "

LAURA: You don't have to wear a dress, Kima.

MATT: "You don't have to wear it, Kima. It was just a suggestion."

LAURA: (chuckles)

SAM: Kima, he's -

MATT: "I'm going to go change. I'll be right back."

TRAVIS: Yeah, go change.

MATT: She darts off for a bit and Allura smiles and facepalms a bit.

SAM: You two are at the kiddie table.

(all laugh)

LIAM: You ought to let her try that helmet on later.

SAM: Show some class, man.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

MATT: You guys catch up a bit as Allura speaks about her and Drake's escape from Westruun. Kima eventually comes back, wearing ratty clothing. Shirt, pants, the general wear she'd pick up throughout the city. And is still carrying her small maul at her side. It's like her little comfort blanket. (thud) Next to the table.

TRAVIS: Yeahhh. That's better.

MATT: She scoots up next to Allura. Gilmore snaps his fingers and wine begins to pour from the servants. Cassandra says, "Well, thank you all for coming. I believe there is much to get underway here. This - " And she gestures towards Gilmore and Allura, and they nod. Eskil raises his hand a moment. MATT: (as Gilmore) "So, while you've been gone. Allura, you've been doing this research for a bit." "(as Allura) Thank you, thank you. So, we've been trying to ascertain the nature of the ziggurat beneath the city. The ziggurat itself is built over what appears to be an ancient temple of Ioun. The glass substance, the diluted whitestone that has been reformed into glass, is used as a very strong arcane current. A lot of energy was being placed in this location, as there is an actual, what appears to be an arcane leyline, a nexus point, near and above Whitestone, hence the Sun Tree's placement.

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

MATT: "And why it flourishes so well in this region. But everything within a certain vicinity of this temple, of this dark spot, if you will, is eaten. Doesn't vanish, it's not cancelled, it's taken. Devoured. Everything placed within that small little globule of darkness is taken somewhere as well. Now, at first, we thought maybe it was just destroying, but the arcane energy we feel, the flow of it, it's drawing it somewhere. Meaning that this is not what I had feared to be a sphere of annihilation, an object of complete destruction. Instead it feels like it's a siphon. Now, a siphon - siphons are very old. Siphons were used in the First War. They were used as a means of transferring extremely powerful… raw magical powers. They were placed strategically throughout the world's crust at these various nexus points as a means of creating extremely powerful relics. The ones that you seek, the ones that made the Vestiges themselves, were crafted through the use of some of these siphons, but they have been lost and, many thought, destroyed for a very long time, or at least inert. I have reason to believe that this may be one. And it may be active. As to where the other side lies, I do not know. Because each siphon has two points."

TALIESIN: So it's fair to assume that at the other end of this is something old, something trapped, something hungry.

MATT: "Perhaps."

LAURA: Would it be in this plane or another?

MATT: "I have no idea. Everything we've attempted to put through it that had any sort of magical connection, whether it be through inter-planal scrying, anything that would bring us to the other side of this, is crushed, consumed, and transferred as part of it. None of our rituals or enchantments will let us see through this spinning marble, as you call it."

LAURA: You haven't put any blood through it, though?

TALIESIN: Let's not.

LAURA: No, I'm hoping that hasn't happened.

MARISHA: So nothing survives the transfer. It is destroyed into its… purest components, it sounds.

MATT: "Seemingly, yes."

LIAM: Or is it - don't know? Is it that you have no idea what happened to things put through, or -

MATT: "We're still delving into it, and it may be a little while before we figure this out, but this is the best I can ascertain with my knowledge at my disposal. And the Realmseer and Gilmore can back up this research. We've all worked together these past weeks and we're all kind of coming to the same conclusion." She gestures to Gilmore. Gilmore says, "I've only been on this case personally for a few days of rising health standards in my body and I've thrown everything I can at it, honestly, and it's all just come to nothing. Gone. (pthbbt)"

TALIESIN: This is disappointing.

MATT: "You're telling me."

TRAVIS: What about a person?

MATT: "(laughing) I'm not sending a person through there.

MARISHA: To be fair, Grog, I might have tried that, a little.

SAM: What?

TALIESIN: Yes, that's right.

MARISHA: I sort of stuck my hand in the spinning ball of death and let's just say I'm glad I'm still here standing with you all.

LAURA: Was it sucking you in?

MARISHA: It did a considerable amount of damage to my hand and definitely felt like it was sucking me in and I had to resist pretty hard. But it seems like anything that goes in that sphere doesn't come out the other end intact.

LAURA: Gilmore - any of you, Allura - have you experienced any kind of draw toward the orb? Do you feel different, having been around it for very long?

MATT: Gilmore cocks a curious eye to the Realmseer. The Realmseer thinks and scratches his chin, looks to Allura. Allura looks down at the table with her arms crossed, looks to Kima. Kima's finishing her big drink. "(as Kima) I stay away from it. It creeps the hell out of me." "(as Gilmore) Not to my knowledge. Do you think we should be worried?"

LAURA: Well, I don't know. I mean, it is a very strong relic that we don't know how it works.

MATT: (as Gilmore) The difficulty in our research is most of our means of inspection are, well - "

LAURA: Up close and personal.

MATT: "Of arcane nature."

TALIESIN: I was hoping that perhaps we could talk about some engineering possibilities of finding ways that science can measure what it is where magic cannot. Something safe.

SAM: (scoffs) Science, Percy?

TALIESIN: In this sense, as it stands.

MATT: "(as Gilmore) We're open to all possible suggestions. We're kind of at the end of our rope for the time being. We may send a few of us across the way to, well, a few different places for more information. May do a bit of traveling ourselves, it seems."

TALIESIN: I'll sketch something with my copious free time.

MATT: "Hm. Please do."

SAM: No dragons have buzzed by here in our absence?

MATT: They kind of look to themselves. "(as Gilmore) None yet, but we've been very careful. We're in the process of installing some semblance of, (sighs) for lack of a better term, sort of a screen. Ways to reflect and perhaps cloud anyone who attempts to peer too far into the northern regions of Whitestone. The last thing we need is any of these dragons finding their way up north where you've kept all of us and the refugees safe, so we're trying not to piss any of them off, while also trying to make sure that maybe they're not really looking behind this curtain of cloud."

TALIESIN: Any fortifications would be helpful.

LAURA: Don't dragons sort of see past those things?

MATT: "We're doing our best to try and meet those standards."

TALIESIN: I have another request in that direction that might help. If there was a way to spread the word in this city and amongst those who travel, to not speak of us. We should probably not be hailed in this city at all. Our names should be stricken from any record of it.

MATT: Allura leans forward on the table. "No, I see. You're right. There is merit in that, though it will be difficult. Many here look up to you. They see you as the salvation of this city. But I believe we can go about and speak with them and help instill the idea that it's for the better good that you are not mentioned."

TALIESIN: Best to be nameless, at this point.

MARISHA: It's for their own safety.

TALIESIN: It's for everybody's.

LAURA: We-who-must-not-be-named.

SAM: The Unmentionables.

TALIESIN: (cracks up) You're a terrible person.

LAURA: (gasps) I love it.

MARISHA: Yeah. My choice is The Unmentionables. I like it.

MATT: Allura says, "I did find some research on some of these Vestiges you are seeking."

TALIESIN: Oh!

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: "There is - from what I could bring forth from the Cobalt Reserve in Westruun, there is an artifact that lies in the Feywild, swallowed by a terrible tree."

LAURA: Yes, the Warden.

MATT: "Is that the name of it?"

LAURA: The Wrath of the Fey Warden.

MATT: "So you've found some information yourself?"

LAURA: Just the name.

SAM: And that it's in the Feywild, but nothing more.

MATT: "(sighs) This tree that holds it, it's a tree seeded by the betrayal of an archfey whose hatred burned into a black heart of disease. The cleansing rivers of the Gilded Run prevent the spread of the Shademirk Bog that seeps from it."

TRAVIS: Sounds nasty.

MATT: "It doesn't sound very fun, no."

SAM: The Shademark Balg?

MATT: "The Shademirk Bog."

SAM: Ugh, it sounds awful.

MATT: "It seeps from this tree. It is held at bay by the rivers of the Gilded Run."

MARISHA: The rivers are called the Gilded Run?

MATT: "Mm-hm."

SAM: Okay. Well, that helps us. Those are clues.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: And the Shademirk Bog pours out of the tree?

LAURA: Out of the cancerous tree.

MARISHA: The tree is responsible for a swampy bog.

MATT: "From best I could ascertain from my research, yes."

LAURA: And Fen - Fenraths? Fen - what's the name?

SAM: Fenthras, Wrath of the Fey Warden.

LAURA: Fenthras is inside of the tree that is terrible.

MATT: "It is very possible."

TALIESIN: Oh no.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Do you know anything about the Vestige itself?

MATT: "I don't, unfortunately. Most of the Cobalt Reserve was destroyed and I was under siege at the moment from the return of the dragons. (sighs)"

LAURA: Did you happen to find in your research what, perhaps, we might face in the Feywild? I mean, we've learned a little bit of it, but I know that it's going to be rather dangerous.

MATT: "I've not been there myself. It creeps me out."

LAURA: (laughs)

TRAVIS: (laughs) No? Sorry.

MATT: "I did find also about the Spire of Conflux. It is a staff that can bend the elements and was taken into The Abyss by Joran the Sea-Speaker, hero of the Verdant Expanse, about four centuries back, and was never heard from again."

MARISHA: Joran the what?

MATT: "Joran the Sea-Speaker."

SAM: He speaks to the sea?

MATT: "Perhaps."

TALIESIN: Or just the letter C.

LAURA: (laughs)

SAM: Cookie Monster.

TRAVIS: Hero.

MATT: "I do have some research about the dragons, as well."

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: "I've done a bit of looking into the personality types, the habits of some of these chromatics you may be coming up against. The black dragon, you seemingly already dealt with, if word has come to me correctly."

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Which is magnificent and well done. Very dangerous. Let's hope they don't decide to strike back soon. However - "

LAURA: Good thing we didn't provoke them in the cave at all, Percival.

TALIESIN: If they came there, they would've been provoked, I figured.

MATT: "I did find that the white dragons, they're more primal. They're overall less intelligent than other chromatics." And some of this information you know.

LAURA: Yeah, why am I writing this down? I know this shit.

MATT: "But what they do is they - (sighs) well, don't let the lack of intelligence lull you into comfort. They are also unpredictable and raw. Dangerous hunters, they stalk in ruined lands of ice and vengeance. Their memory is eternal. They recall every slight defeat and have been known to hold vendettas for centuries and centuries. They despise other dragons and this loose alignment with Thordak is stranger than the others for the white dragon. Though Vorugal's distance to the others is intentional, most likely. I mean, the entire alignment between them is strange, anyway, but particularly with the white dragon. They generally steer very clear of, or are bent on destroying, any other types of dragons that may wander in their midst."

LAURA: (whispering) Interesting.

MATT: "Green dragons, in particular, are manipulative. Liars, by nature, finding pleasure in power over others. Through deceit and promises of wealth and glory, they corrupt. They play subservience to other dragons, then plot their demise to claim their hoards. They're the seedy underbelly of the chromatic world, if you will. They amass powerful allies, human and beyond, to their will, bending them and using them as tools. Their life and their very presence is poison to those around them, and is the very basis of their danger. They corrupt the air around them to be venomous. I found a bit about this Raishan you mentioned, and word has spoken, though little that exists out there, that she is also a very practitioned weaver of the arcane arts, so be warned."

MARISHA: So much so that she could almost pass as a druid wielding natural magic?

MATT: "I can imagine that's quite within her grasp. I've heard rumors of her calling the sky down upon her enemies. Previous individuals that hoped to raid her space were swallowed in quaking earth as she laughed from above."

SAM: Druid-y things.

MARISHA: I want to kill her so hard. (strained) I want her to die.

TALIESIN: Do we know where these - where these dragons have been all this time, where they were banished to?

MATT: "I mean, most of these dragons lived their lives wherever they once were before. Raishan used to exist in the mountains outside of Syngorn and actually had amassed a sizeable horde of followers, lizard-men. Lizardfolk, all sorts."

TALIESIN: Wait, then Thordak was banished to the Fire Plane?

MATT: "Thordak we had banished, yes. Thordak, in particular. Now, red dragons are true tyrants, built on impulse and rage. Arrogant to the core, they see themselves as rightful rulers over all. And Thordak, the king of all other dragons, as well. He is powerful enough to amass networks of spies and followers far beyond just the dragons that we've battled, I'm sure. So the more time that passes, the more powerful that network will become.

LAURA: (muffled) Oh, fuck.

TALIESIN: I've had a terrible thought, and it is sort of my business to have terrible thoughts. What else has been banished to the Fire Plane?

TRAVIS: The djinn?

TALIESIN: Well, I say this because if I were to slowly open the portal to the Fire Plane and power it and make it bigger and bigger and bigger, eventually it would be a hole into that dimension that's big enough for a dragon to fit through, but still not big enough for me, so I need to keep eating, to make it bigger.

LAURA: (gasps)

TALIESIN: And maybe they might be looking for what's down there so they can feed it and make a bigger hole. Just a thought. It may be nothing.

LAURA: You think there's something bigger than Thordak in the Fire Plane?

TALIESIN: It's - I have terrible thoughts. It's a terrible thought.

MARISHA: I mean, I'm sure there is something bigger than Thordak, probably in the Fire Plane, but we closed - the Fire Ashari closed the portal. That's our -

TALIESIN: That may not have been the portal.

MARISHA: That was the portal -

LAURA: That's the portal he came out of.

MARISHA: - that Thordak came out of. It ripped apart my entire -

TALIESIN: That may just be where he escaped. There might be - that power may still be flowing.

MARISHA: Well, Allura, how did you lock him in the Fire Plane to begin with?

MATT: "Well, we had, through clever subterfuge, managed to have a member of our team work as a follower of Thordak, work into his greater trust and convince him that to perpetuate his wealth, his growth, his strength, that he needed to truly embrace the essence of fire. And there are crystals, there are remnants of the First War that exist in this world and others. The very core of the elemental chaos itself, the hearts of the titans left behind. These heart-stones are the very basis, or, at least, shadows of the basis of what made the elements when creation came to be. We had found one of these on the Fire Plane, but the nature of these is that they cannot be removed. If they are brought beyond the plane themselves, they generally shatter, and the few that can be brought across temporarily, the magics that contain them do weaken, and those that attempted to harness their power leave it to ruin, destroying all around them before it whirls itself into a frenzy of uncontrollable arcane mass and destroys everything nearby. These were many of the fools who ushered in the beginning of the Second War. So. Essentially, we convinced Thordak to find one of these in the plane and convinced him that he had the power to contain it. Once there, all of our forces gathered and we attacked him, pressed him down, and the gem that we had convinced him - the heart-stone that we had convinced him to take into himself, well, we found a way to seal it, to banish it permanently to that plane so that he could not escape.

MARISHA: All right. So, that's all good. But he did escape.

LAURA: Could he still potentially have it inside of him?

MARISHA: Exactly! That was my question!

SAM: Well, she asked it, so, technically, it's hers.

MATT: She turns and you can see Gilmore's sitting at the table like this. "(as Gilmore)I got a very good close at that dragon. A very good close look, to finish my sentence. I've been drinking plenty of wine tonight, don't judge me."

LAURA: That's very - yeah.

ASHLEY: Expensive-ass wine.

TRAVIS: Been drinking.

TALIESIN: It's the best wine.

MATT: "It is very, very expensive, fine wine."

TRAVIS: Matt's Vineyard is the best.

MATT: "Thank you, Grog, it's wondrous."

MARISHA: (laughs)

MATT: "But his mass, his unforeseen size to a creature like that. I couldn't help but notice that within his torso there was a pulsing heart… of red glass."

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: Look how clever food makes all of us.

MATT: He looks over to Allura. Allura nods. "Well, if that is the case, then it's, I think, there's very much a chance that he did escape with the heart-stone intact."

TRAVIS: I have a question. We've got one of the Vestiges in these Titanstone Knuckles, made from the heart-stone. If I left the plane with these, are they gonna blow everybody up?

MATT: "(as Allura) An intact heart-stone is the true source of power. Those have been carved from one, an inert one, or, at least, they carry but a smidgen of the power. I think you're safe, Grog."

TRAVIS: Oh, thank god.

ASHLEY: Phew.

LAURA: Which one?

TRAVIS: Kord.

LAURA: Oh, Kord. I got it. (chuckles)

MATT: Allura leans in again. "I have been keeping an eye on Emon from this distance, as well. It seems that Thordak's very essence twists the land with elemental magic."

TRAVIS: (whispering) Oh, shit.

MATT: "My distant views of the city have shown the center of the town cracked with volcanic fire as he digs and burrows beneath the city itself.

TALIESIN: (whispering) Fuck.

LAURA: Oh, fuck.

TRAVIS: Wait, why is he digging and burrowing?

LIAM: He's reshaping the land as he sees fit.

TRAVIS: Or is he looking for something?

LAURA: Because he's a dick.

TRAVIS: Is he not looking for something?

TALIESIN: He might be looking for something, or might be making -

MARISHA: So these heart-stones embrace the essence of where they reside?

MATT: "Their essence is created where they reside."

MARISHA: And he has the heart-stone of the Fire Elemental Plane living inside of him.

MATT: "A heart-stone. There are many."

MARISHA: A heart-stone. Right.

LAURA: I'm confused.

TRAVIS: I need more wine. Do you think he was just making himself at home, or do you think he was looking for something?

MATT: "I don't know. He seems pretty lax. From what I could tell from my investigations, the major step in the Conclave's plan is already over."

LAURA: Take over everything.

MATT: "Now they settle into the divided territories and forget each other. Now, I feel that Thordak is far too old and covetous to be content with just Emon. Now, this was vengeance, which is now complete. Who knows what the next stage in his terrible design is."

MARISHA: So you're thinking the Chroma Conclave was simply a temporary alliance?

MATT: "There are very few permanent alliances between chromatic dragons."

LAURA: Well, that's good.

MARISHA: We can use this.

LAURA: Maybe they won't take vengeance.

ASHLEY: Maybe we can get one of them on our side.

TALIESIN: We can only be so hopeful that they tear each other apart.

LAURA: Maybe the white one will want to help kill Thordak with us.

MARISHA: Turning them against each other's not a bad idea.

TALIESIN: Our best hope, at this point, is just to amass power. We are not strong enough.

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: But we will get stronger.

LAURA: Does the heart-stone make him even stronger than he already was?

MATT: "I don't know, but he was not that large when we sealed him."

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: Seize.

MARISHA: So we can take - yeah, yeah.

LAURA: If we can pry it out of his body, we could shrink him down. Perfect plan.

SAM: Then we could go inside a dragon again.

LAURA: We can go in another dragon.

LIAM: Every one of them, one after the other.

TRAVIS: You seen any dragons on the outskirts of the town? Have there been any flyovers or close calls within, say, 50 to 100 miles or so? Any reports?

MATT: "Hundred miles. There were reports of the white dragon a week ago, south of us. Far south of us."

TRAVIS: Far south.

LAURA: Doing what, just flying?

MATT: "Just flying. Flying east."

TALIESIN: Unless they know what's underneath the castle, there's nothing of value here.

LIAM: Do we know where Vorugal has taken up roost? No one knows?

MATT: "No. I've tried to Scry, but they're apparently protected against that now."

TRAVIS: What about means of protection for Whitestone. Do you have a defense planned? A warning system?

MATT: "We're just getting now to that point. It may be a few weeks before we're ready to go. It's a lot to build and it's a very big space to protect, but me and Drake are working on some ideas. (sighs)"

MARISHA: Do you know exactly how these heart-stones are forged?

MATT: "They're not forged. They existed. They were the hearts of the primordial titans that existed on this world before the gods even came here."

MARISHA: Oh, that's right.

LAURA: Wow.

MATT: "They were the true denizens of this world, before any of us."

SAM: This is an awesome dinner, by the way. Super good.

LAURA: So good.

TALIESIN: I love game meat.

MATT: "I'm sorry, it's been a very tense time."

LAURA: This wine is pretty good.

ASHLEY: It's very good.

MATT: "Perhaps rest is in order for all of us. It's been a lot. I'm so sorry. It's good to see all of you."

TRAVIS: You, as well.

LAURA: You've done so much.

MATT: Allura brightens up a little bit. You can see that she feels guilty that she just did this information dump and is like, "(sighs) It's good to see all of you."

MARISHA: It was good to see you.

MATT: "(sighs) Well, let us rest for the evening." Drinks the last of her wine, stands up. "We'll talk on the morrow." She gets up. "Kima?" "(as Kima) I'm coming, let me finish."

LAURA AND MARISHA: (laugh)

MATT: (as Kima) "No, seriously, it's good to see you all. I'm glad you're all right."

LAURA: You should have been with us.

MATT: "I should've been with you. I didn't know you left!"

LAURA: Sorry, Kima. We're dicks.

MATT: "Is Westruun okay?"

LAURA: It's… better.

MARISHA: (whispering) It's not great, though.

LAURA: It's getting better.

TALIESIN: It lives. It lives.

SAM: That's true.

MARISHA: It stands.

MATT: "Does my house still stand?"

(all make hedging noises)

SAM: What's a house, really, but a bunch of bricks.

MATT: "Oh, it's fine."

MARISHA: Home is where you make it, Kima.

MATT: "Object impermanence. (glug glug) Next time you're going there, you tell me."

LAURA: Oh, yes. We will.

TALIESIN: We will be returning.

TRAVIS: On one condition. Don't wear any more dresses.

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: "You saying I wasn't pretty, Grog?"

TRAVIS: I like you in your armor better.

MATT: "That's why I missed you." She reaches out and smacks your cheek -

TRAVIS: Yaaah.

(all laugh)

MATT: "All right, kiddies, sleep it is." Kima gets up and joins Allura, and they both leave. Gilmore stands up, Realmseer stands up. "(as Eskil) All right, everyone. Rest well. See you in the morning. And, ah, glad you're all safe."

LIAM: Good night, Shaun.

MATT: (as Gilmore) Good night, everyone.

ASHLEY: Good night, Gilmore.

MATT: "Sleep well." They all leave.

SAM: So we rest here for a night or two and then, to the Feywild?

TRAVIS: Yeah, Feywild.

SAM: Or to the -

TRAVIS: We even have a geographic - demographic location to like -

SAM: True.

MARISHA: We do.

TALIESIN: I feel like the Feywild calls to us.

LIAM: What do you say we go get you a new bow?

LAURA: We could go get me a new bow. There's also the ocean.

SAM: Yeah.

LIAM: Nah. Let's get you a bow.

MARISHA: Let's go get you a bow.

ASHLEY: I'm going to pour another glass of wine.

TALIESIN: Ocean next.

SAM: Pike could go off to get the ocean one herself.

LAURA: No! You're crazy.

LIAM: That's a shitty idea.

MATT: (laughs)

TRAVIS: I think you've had too much to drink, Scanlan.

LAURA: Or the two of you together.

SAM: Yeah, I like the ocean. I don't really like the ocean.

(all laugh)

MATT: You guys all going to rest?

MARISHA: I have one thing I'd like to do.

MATT: Okay, what do you want to do?

MARISHA: I want to go back to our little cave that we dug out under where the Sun Tree is. Is that still there?

MATT: Yeah, it's still there.

MARISHA: I want to go there, and I want to kind of sit down and meditate for a second. And I want to cast Speak With Plants and have a little chat with the Sun Tree.

MATT: Okay. (laughs) You cast the spell, you reach out and touch the roots of the tree, the roots of which have more color than they did before. The dull gray has become more of a full brown. The earth here smells of fresh, damp earth. The tree, while still in the winter phase, is definitely teeming with life, to where it once didn't.

MARISHA: I reach out and I touch the roots. Can I just kind of feel, sense the arcane ley-lines that Allura was talking about that the tree's in the center of?

MATT: Mmm… not really. In speaking to the tree, you can ask questions, but you're not quite - you find yourself unable to tune into that or tap into that source of magic. At this place, at least.

MARISHA: Okay. So I just reach out, touch the tree, and say, Hey, old friend. How are you feeling? Doing better?

MATT: "Hey, bud. Much better."

(all laugh)

MARISHA: You're pretty cool, Sun Tree.

MATT: "Sun Tree, A-OK."

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Hey, Sun Tree?

MATT: "Yeaaah?"

MARISHA: I was just wondering if you knew - if you could tell me anything about this terrible cancerous tree in the Feywild, if you knew anything about it? He might be like your brother or something.

MATT: "Tree cancer? What?"

MARISHA: No! No, okay. There's this tree in the Feywild and it might have a man living in it called Fenthras and -

TRAVIS: (quietly) The bow.

MARISHA: No, sorry, that's the name of the bow, the bow is in it, named Fenthras, and it might be a really sick tree. Can you tell me where there's a really sick tree, maybe in the Feywild?

MATT: "That sounds sad, but no. I don't know a tree like that, sorry. I've been here in Whitestone since day one."

(all laugh)

LIAM: Want to play hacky sack?

TALIESIN: Born and raised.

MATT: So I graduated from Berkeley and made my way to Whitestone.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: My twigs smoke the doob.

SAM: “Barkeley.”

MARISHA: “BARKELEY!”

ASHLEY: Put a pair of Birkenstocks on its branches.

TRAVIS: “Birkenstalks.”

MATT: (groans)

LAURA: “Birkenstalks?” I like it.

MARISHA: Hey, Sun Tree?

MATT: "Yeaaah?"

MARISHA: You apparently kind of live in the middle of all these arcane ley-lines of the world.

MATT: "Yeah."

TALIESIN: (cracks up)

MARISHA: How far do those stretch?

MATT: "Loooong way, Kiki. Loooooooong way."

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Can you kind of give me a rough idea? Do they go to the other side of the world? Can you stretch all over the world?

MATT: "Naaah, just right here. Pelor put me here for a reason."

MARISHA: Who? Pelor?

MATT: "Yeah."

MARISHA: Right. So you're not a natural tree, you're a tree from the gods?

MATT: "Sure."

MARISHA: All right. Well, anyway, you're really awesome, Sun Tree.

MATT: "Speak for yourself, Kiki."

MARISHA: Yeah, you're so cool. Okay, so it was good talking to you.

MATT: "You, too."

MARISHA: I'll walk through you soon. 'Kay, bye.

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: And then I leave.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I want to make a once-over on Vax and make sure that - "So you did, you got all the blood off, then?"

LIAM: What are you doing? Yeah, I took a bath.

LAURA: I mean, we got all cleaned up for tonight. I just want to make sure you didn't ruin it by keeping some of the blood in your freaking hair.

LIAM: Don't - don't I look all right? I'm fine! What's your problem?

LAURA: Nothing! Just making sure you're doing all right.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: All the blood's gone.

LIAM: Yeah. It's all gone.

LAURA: You're great.

LIAM: I'm doing much better.

LAURA: Good.

LIAM: Much better. You ready for the Feywild?

LAURA: So - fuck, no, not ready, but we can do it.

LIAM: Oh.

TALIESIN: Stupid to settle.

MARISHA: (snorts)

LAURA: I walk over to Percy -

TALIESIN: I was about to walk out the door, but if you're walking -

LAURA: Before you leave, I whisper in your ear, "You still have a little blood behind your ear."

TRAVIS: (gasps)

TALIESIN: Do you want to take a walk with me?

LAURA: (sighs) Sure.

TALIESIN: We take a very quiet walk around Whitestone. I want to pass all of the temples that are either still standing or destroyed. I just want to take a temple tour. Not stopping, not talking, I just want to see what they look like. Pelor looks good. The one in the cemetery?

MATT: The one in the cemetery is still under construction. That one needs a little more work.

TALIESIN: While in the cemetery - I assume that it's still a mess.

MATT: Most of the graves have been refilled, the corpses have been brought back. Most of the dead that were brought forth from the previous owners have been returned. That was one of the first orders of business that people who live here did, was to return their families to the earth.

TALIESIN: Is there - there were a couple of lords' crypts in there. Was there an Anders family crypt, at one point?

MATT: There would have been, yeah.

TALIESIN: Cool. All right. I'm going to walk back to the castle, with you in tow, and I'm going to find Zahra.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Are you going to tell me why you went and saw the Raven Queen?

TALIESIN: Yes. Come.

MATT: All right. You come back to the study where you originally found Zahra. She's still there poring over books, but is now half-asleep. She has a little candle that's starting to flicker out and she has her feet up on the desk and her tail's kind of curled up and she's falling asleep into the book as you walk in.

LAURA: (whispering) Dear -

MATT: "What, what, what, I - "

LAURA: We all need sleep sometimes, hon.

MATT: "Sleep's for the boring."

TALIESIN: I have a task for you, if you have the time and energy for something a bit quiet, but necessary.

MATT: "What do you ask, Percy?"

TALIESIN: I'm going to have the deeds to the Anders family crypt transferred to your name. I want you to clean it out. Throw the bodies wherever; he has disgraced himself. Clean them. And if you can, if you can find people who can do it, I want to very quietly, in that crypt, create a small shrine to the Raven Queen. This will help.

TALIESIN: And I bring out the vial of blood from the pit. "Perhaps they will know what to do with that."

MATT: "Intriguing."

TALIESIN: But I would like her to have a quiet mark in this city.

LAURA: Is this for you, or for my brother?

TALIESIN: …It's for your brother, so that he can help us. We're apparently all in this together.

MATT: "Intriguing!"

LAURA: I give Percy a kiss on the cheek.

TALIESIN: Oh. Thank you.

MATT: "All right."

TALIESIN: We need all the help we can get.

MATT: "Very well. I'm sure it can be done. I never owned a crypt before. I'm excited."

LAURA: It's exciting. (laughs)

MATT: She takes the vial and puts it on the table.

LAURA: I think it suits you.

TALIESIN: Tell anyone you'd like where I went. It's not a secret. I just wasn't ready to… I don't think your brother - I would hate for him to think I'm competing. I just had some questions.

LAURA: I won't tell anyone, Percy.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: Your business is yours. And mine, because I noticed. (chuckles)

MARISHA: (snorts)

TALIESIN: Thank you for noticing, and… I'm trying hard not to make it my business. It's hard to remember sometimes. (sighs)

LAURA: (quietly) We're all family.

TALIESIN: That's awful, isn't it. (sighs) I'm going to go to my room -

LAURA: Oh! Percy!

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: Sorry. If Zahra wanted to make some dragon arrows, could she use stuff here in the castle?

TALIESIN: I'll talk to my sister on the way out. I'll write her a letter and see if they can - they may have to delve into our materials for it, but I think we're good.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: We'll talk about using our materials for such a thing and I'll - yes, will talk to her about that.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do my little thing and if it works, great, and if not, we'll speak not of it for a while.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make your tinkering check.

TALIESIN: Better! 30.

MATT: That'll do.

TALIESIN: I craft a brooch. It's not even a brooch, it's a clasp. Using - I had built these pieces of it earlier on in the game. For the last three weeks I've been working on this. I've taken the raven skull that you gave me and made a mold and poured melted silver into a bird skull, a silver bird skull. Taken a ruby and set it behind it, built it into a clasp that does not reflect, and in it, put a sachet of - satchel…

MARISHA: Sachet.

LAURA: Sachet!

TALIESIN: Thank you, my brain? Coffee. Of myrrh and -

SAM: Frankincense?

TALIESIN: (snorts and laughs) Myrrh, sandalwood, and opium and dragon's blood. Not real dragon's blood, but dragon's blood -

SAM: True blood.

TALIESIN: Sap. It's a sap. It's a tree sap. Put the whole thing together.

LIAM: You've had opium this whole time and you never…

TALIESIN: It's not, it's just poppy.

MARISHA: Poppy.

LAURA: What does it do? What does it do?

TALIESIN: You will find out when I present it.

MATT: All right. Everyone else going to rest?

TRAVIS: No. I ran out of dinner super fast and I ran outside of Vax's room and I took the jug and I whispered into it, “oil,” and I poured one quart of oil on the ground outside of his door. Looked around real quick. Is there anyone in the hallway?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: 10.

MATT: Looks clear.

TRAVIS: (giggles) And I run away.

(all laugh)

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: That was super awesome and I can't wait to see the outcome, but before that happens, I was standing right here when these two walked off, so I am waiting in the exact same spot for my sister to return.

MATT: A lot of time passes.

LIAM: It's fine.

MATT: A few hours pass before she returns, but she eventually does.

LAURA: Are you still here? You should go to bed.

LIAM: I will. I took a little bit of a nap.

LAURA: In the dining hall.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: What?

LIAM: You're a grown-ass woman, and you're twice as strong as I am.

LAURA: I know.

LIAM: So your business is your business. Just… both eyes open, yeah?

LAURA: Always. (chuckles) I'm very perceptive. (cackles)

LIAM: Don't do that to me.

TALIESIN: That's two. Two winks! Ah hah hah.

LIAM: Don't - please don't ever, ever, ever - do that to me again.

LAURA: I love you so much.

LIAM: And if you do, you will never use that wink on me again. It is not for me.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Just… he's charming, but both eyes open, please.

LAURA: I don't know what you are talking about.

LIAM: Yeah, the fuck you don't. I'm going to go to my room now and see if I splat on the floor.

MATT: All right, make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Come on, big money, no whammies.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Ohhh.

LIAM: Sorry, buddy, it's a 31.

MATT: As you approach the door, you look down and see a smear of dark, reflective oil across the walkway about two feet leading up to your room. You guys have a cluster of rooms in this long hallway, and it arcs around like an L. So you guys are in this big L of all your rooms scattered throughout.

LIAM: How thick is it? Is it viscous?

MATT: Yeah, it's pretty slippery.

LIAM: Put my hand in it. Does that stay?

MATT: The hand stays for a minute, then -

LIAM: Goes away.

MATT: Yeah, it's pretty thick.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: Also has a fume to it.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to scrape a bunch of it up just into my hand, so I have a big handful of it, and I'm just going to go to Grog's room, and I'm going to slowly, just at the door, take time to write: “Grog smells like farts and” -

LAURA: I walk by him as he's doing this and say,

LIAM: Do you want to help?

LAURA: You know he can't read, right?

MARISHA: (laughs)

LIAM: I picked specifically small words!

(all laugh)

LIAM: - “poo.”

TALIESIN: Oh, he can read that.

LIAM: And I draw - No. I'll tell you what I do. Pull down my breeches and I put the oil on my butt and I go (pfft).

(all laugh)

MATT: A little butt-print?

LIAM: A little signature.

MATT: All right. Well done.

TALIESIN: Preschoolers run amok in my gentle abode.

LIAM: Get busy living or get busy dying. Butt-print.

MATT: All right. You guys all get into bed. Anything else you want to get done?

SAM: I just told Pike she looked real pretty tonight and I go back to my reading.

MATT: Okay. You guys all find yourselves back to your respective rooms, resting for the night. Some doors adorned differently than others. Partway into the evening's resting, we'll say the wee hours of the morning, post-midnight or so, your door opens slightly, Vax. You hear a little (knocking sound) on your door.

LIAM: Yes?

MATT: You look over and you see Gilmore pop his head in with a soft smile. "I'm sorry if I'm waking you up, I - "

LIAM: It's all right.

MATT: "Here." And he produces what looks like a folded pile of material and throws it on the foot of your bed and goes, "Come, Vax, I made you a gift. Put it on, come walk with me awhile. We have a lot to talk about."

LIAM: I open it up.

MATT: It's a very well-crafted silk robe of dark blue and black. Beaded, nice against the skin. It's really, really nice.

LIAM: (quietly) "Give me a minute." There's a wooden screen in the room. I go behind it and wipe any oil left off my butt.

(all laugh)

MATT: That's fantastic.

LIAM: Everything looks all right. And I put it on.

MATT: All right. He waits for you patiently in the hallway.

LIAM: Yeah, sure.

MATT: So he begins walking along. Puts his arm out to you.

LIAM: Take it.

MATT: You take his arm. You guys walk up along the hallway. He leads you to a staircase that leads up further, and he goes, "I know a lot has happened these recent months. I've been watching from afar, keeping tabs on your journey best that I can. But I still know so little." You ascend the lengthy staircase and you make your way to the higher floor. You eventually open an intricate door and walk out onto a wide balcony on that tower that overlooks the grounds and the castle before you. Beautiful moonlight, the night air. You see the moon is nearly full and the white light illuminates the densely-forested countryside surrounding the castle. He closes the door and walks up to you at the edge of the balcony, looking over it all, elbows on the edge. "Some time has passed, Vax. And much of the world moves on to newer, greater threats. But true pain never really heals." He turns to you and steps up to you, looking you close in the face. "You hurt me deeply. And continue to hurt. Agony, for weeks, months. Pain I had never experienced. (deepening to a growl) It's all I can think about."

LIAM: Can I make an insight check?

MATT: You would, if you had time.

MARISHA: Oh my god!

LAURA: (gasps) I knew it. I knew it.

MARISHA: No!

MATT: The pain hits you suddenly, before anything else does, as you're lost in that face and the sudden feeling, the sensation of terror and horror. You suffer 18 points of piercing damage, and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Oh, that's my specialty.

TALIESIN: (whispering) We don't know what the hell this is.

LIAM: Constitution save?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

LIAM: 11.

MATT: You feel the poison -

LIAM: I'll use Luck.

MATT: Roll again.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay. You feel what should be a pulse of poison hit your system and you just manage to fight it off as suddenly you look down and there is Gilmore holding a blade thrust into your stomach, your robes now beginning to fill with crimson red around the wound. It's at that moment you see him pull you in and stare into your face with a very, very low growl: "It's all I think about." And you watch as a flicker to his form happens and you see for a second there's a flash: not skin, but fur. You see teeth, you see whiskers, and the hand holding the dagger is facing the other direction. That's where we're going to end tonight's session.

(shocked exclamations)

MARISHA: Nooo!

LAURA: The rakshasa?

MARISHA: Is it a rakshasa?

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: Ohhhh.

MATT: We'll be back next week.

LIAM: That fucked with my head, Matt. What are you doing?

TALIESIN: Wooow.

MATT: What a rakshasa does.

SAM: Good job, man.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MARISHA: What the fuck?!

TALIESIN: Wow.

MARISHA: Has he been a rakshasa the whole time? Wait, is it the rakshasa who's different? Is it not Gilmore? So many questions!

LIAM AND MATT: (laugh)

MATT: Perhaps this will be revealed next week as we kick in at this very moment.

LAURA: Oh my god. Why does it always leave off when he's about to get killed?

MARISHA: Right! Why is it always you?

SAM: Because he's always almost about to die.

LIAM: This one did die! That one did die!

TALIESIN: Because he runs into all the rooms first and he makes out with everybody.

LAURA: Because you do. That's the thing.

TALIESIN: That's why it happens. He runs into the rooms first 1and he puts his tongue exciting places.

MARISHA AND LAURA: (laugh)

MATT: You also happened to lean in real close -

TALIESIN: I'm not yelling at you, man. I'm envious.

MATT: - and whisper in the ear of the rakshasa as he slowly slit its throat across the floor.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right, you did do that.

LAURA: Oh, so what did you do? What did you do?

LIAM: I slit its throat, yeah.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: It's all right.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait.

MATT: It just wants to come back and show you the same love.

ASHLEY: (quietly) Okay, so it's not really Gilmore.

MARISHA: Oh, wait, did you get the final blow in the rakshasa in the Slayer's Take?

LIAM: Yes, I did. Yeah, I cut his throat.

LAURA: And you said something shitty to him.

LIAM: He threatened my family and I said, “Say something about my sister again,” and I slit his throat.

LAURA: Oh, nice!

MATT: Oh, boy.

TALIESIN: It's about to drop.

MARISHA: But he was dead. What the fuck is going on?!

LAURA: Did you chop him up?

TRAVIS: Well, if that's not a - that's not Gilmore, where is he?

MARISHA: No, 'cause I'm not a psycho.

SAM: This is exciting.

MATT: This will be interesting next week when we kick in.

TALIESIN: There's a fine line between psycho and practical.

MARISHA: I can see chopping someone's body up might be psycho.

TALIESIN: It's not psycho if you drive a very small car with a lot of trunk space.

TRAVIS: Nicely done, Matt.

LAURA: Nice, Matt.

MATT: Guys, great game tonight.

LAURA: Thanks, guys.

TRAVIS: That Raven Queen, whoo.

LIAM: Whoo.

LAURA: That can be the name of the episode -

LAURA: - is Yaaas Queen.

ASHLEY: Yaaas Queen.

(all laugh)

MATT: Awesome. Well, guys, we're going to go ahead and get home and rest. Hope you enjoyed tonight's episode.

TALIESIN: Is there going to be one more giveaway?

MATT: Is there?

LAURA: Are we doing another giveaway?

LIAM: There were two Loot Crates, one -

LUCAS: We'll do a giveaway afterwards.

MATT: Okay, we'll do a giveaway afterwards. Perfect. One more DX Loot Crate box coming your way.

LAURA: Thanks, Loot Crate!

LIAM: Thanks, Joe Madureira, for the art!

LAURA: Thanks, Joe!

ASHLEY: Get your posters!

TALIESIN: It's so cool.

LAURA: Thanks, Critters, for being awesome!

ASHLEY: We love you!

MATT: Hope you guys got to enjoy our silly E3 couple hours we did earlier on GameSpot. I'm sure that'll go up soon, anyway. But anyway, guys, we'll see you next week. Until then, rest well and, is it Thursday yet? See you then.

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons and occasionally get shivved by a rakshasa.

LAURA AND ASHLEY: No!

MATT: Occasionally.

ASHLEY: Go away.

MATT: So! Before we go ahead and jump into the game tonight, let's go ahead and do a couple quick announcements. First and foremost, returning again this week, our sponsor Loot Crate for bringing this episode to you guys. For those who are familiar with it, and most of you are at this point, but Loot Crate is a monthly subscription box service. They have awesome geek-related gear and merchandise and clothing, a lot of them exclusive to the box. You get $20 a month to get six to eight items that include licensed gear, apparel, collectible, all that fun-ness, but you also get a $3 discount if you go ahead and sign up at lootcrate.com/criticalrole and enter the key phrase criticalrole - one word - into that new subscription code box. They also have a DX box, which is bigger, awesome for the super-collector out there. Which has a bunch of really awesome exclusive content. Plays awesome music from Ashley's phone.

ASHLEY: That's true, you all get my phone if you get it.

MATT: This month's Dystopia boxes will be shipping out soon to those of you guys who subscribed, and Loot Crate will be announcing their next box tomorrow, 6/24.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they will!

MATT: So look forward to that - and you'll see what their next theme is, which will be nice.

LAURA: How - you were already here!

MATT: Sam! Come on in, sir.

MARISHA: You're here, you're still coming in.

MATT: You were on time and you're still somehow late.

SAM: Nobody told me that the show was starting.

MATT: It's 7:00! It's crazy.

SAM: Oh, that's right.

LAURA: Oh, that's how it works.

MATT: So yeah. The links are in the chat. Check it out if you're interested in signing up for Loot Crate. We hope to make it a little bit cheaper for you. So, there. We got that. The Critical Role t-shirt design contest has been live for a while.

LAURA: There are so many good pieces.

MARISHA: Oh man, so many good ones.

MATT: It's going to be ridiculous. I'm not looking forward to having to choose.

MARISHA: Yes, I know, it's going to be tough.

TRAVIS: Stick figures for the win.

MATT: But yeah, it closes June 24th, guys. This Friday at midnight. So go ahead and get them in; you got one more day for the most part, a little over a day to get those last entries in and we'll announce those winners soon. Remember, you have to be 18 or older to enter, or you can have a guardian enter -

LAURA: We choose the top three, right? And then the Critters get to -

MATT: The Critters choose the last one.

SAM: But you can already vote.

LAURA: Yeah, I don't understand how that's working, because we're choosing the top three, and then the Critters get to choose between the ones that we choose.

MARISHA: I think it's supposed to be like how our Congress is supposed to work,

SAM: They're choosing representatives?

MARISHA: Yeah, exactly.

LAURA: I understand.

MARISHA: We'll see what you want -

LAURA: And disregard it completely.

MARISHA: We'll disregard it completely and just make our own choice.

MATT: We're just all not in the room where it happens.

ALL: (singing) I wanna be in the room where it happens, the room where it happens, the room where it happens.

MATT: Oh god, we're those people. Sorry. Anyway, that ends tomorrow. You have to be 18 or older to enter, but you can have a guardian enter on your behalf if you're a young artist. Fantastic news. Next up, our posters that we put up last week.

ALL: Oh!

MATT: Really excited about those, done by the awesome Joe Mad. Those are still on sale. We have one more week only for the exclusive cast-signed posters, and then two weeks for the pre-order for the regular poster. Go check it out at the Geek & Sundry shop if you're interested. The artwork is amazing.

TRAVIS: They're so pretty!

ASHLEY: They're just so pretty!

MATT: Pretty sick, movie poster-sized.

TRAVIS: I want it in a frame.

ASHLEY: They're so pretty in person.

LIAM: In person, they look about ten times more vibrant than the images I saw.

SAM: Just like us!

MATT: Mostly Sam, though. You can't help but be so vibrant. (funny voice) I just spilled on my groin. I don't know why I felt like saying that out loud. So those are the posters. Check them out at shop.geekandsundry.com/collections/criticalrole. Starting tomorrow, we have the MDA stream. Geek & Sundry's doing a fantastic 24-hour charity stream. They've partnered with Amy Poehler's Smart Girls and Nerdist. There's going to be a variety: game-show, livestream, everything, benefiting the Muscular Dystrophy Association. You guys are welcome to come in at any time for as much of it as you can, check out the great programming we have set up for you guys. It starts tomorrow at 7pm. There will be no regular programming tomorrow because the crew is going to have to be setting up and preparing for this actual livestream, but starting at 7pm, it goes on for the next 24 hours. So look forward to us all being sleepless and crazy. We are going to be finishing out the charity drive Saturday evening, starting at 5pm PT here. I'm going to be running a one-shot Deadlands Savage Worlds game for a few of our cast who are going to be here for that, and I'm excited for that because it's one of my favorite settings. It's going to be great! The shirts are available now if you want to check them out. We have our own -

TALIESIN: Right here. Critical Role.

MATT: - charity shirts right there.

LAURA: Ooh, it's beautiful!

TALIESIN: Lovely vibrant blue with a thing on the -

LAURA: All of it, all of it goes to the charity.

MARISHA: Yeah, 100% of the proceeds go to -

MATT: All the proceeds go to MDA.

ASHLEY: Beautiful “turquaz.”

TALIESIN: “Turquaz.”

MATT: We got that set up. Next up, we have tomorrow, we have the next issue, release would we call it, of Dear Vox Machina. However, it is not necessarily a member of Vox Machina. This is one that I put together that I think you guys should enjoy. What character could it possibly be? I guess you'll just have to check in tomorrow to find out. But that'll be on geekandsundry.com tomorrow, I think around noon? Maybe earlier. I'll tweet it out. You'll find out on Geek & Sundry's Twitter page, but -

SAM: Is it Jarrett?

MATT: You'll have to check it out, you'll have to come find out, but I had a lot of fun writing it.

ASHLEY: Someone keeps forgetting to do it.

LAURA: (gasps) You haven't done it yet?

ASHLEY: I keep forgetting. I keep forgetting to do it. And then it comes around, and then…

MATT: I got you covered. Trinket had you covered. You got five more days.

ASHLEY: All right, guys, we'll get there.

MATT: So yeah, that's coming up tomorrow. Check that out. We have a new Signal Boost host. Marisha, you want to take that?

MARISHA: A new host!

MATT: Yeah, what you got?

MARISHA: Stay tuned for the break to see who it is, or if you happened to watch it you already know, but stay tuned for the break for the surprise.

SAM: Best kind of surprise.

MARISHA: Best kind of surprise. That you've already heard about.

MATT: Yeah. And last on my end as far as announcements go, there will be no Critical Role official episode next Thursday because me and Marisha will be in Australia at the Haven Expo, so all you Aussies that want to come see us then, we'll be out there doing panels and talks and meeting a bunch of you guys. It'll be a lot of fun. However, while we will not be here, there will still be other members of our fantastic group here that are able to be here next week to put on whatever you decide to, that's up to you guys.

LAURA: We're just going to hula-hoop for three hours.

TRAVIS: It'll be a surprise. It's going to be great. We're going to draw on each others' faces with toothpaste.

LAURA: They're going to do other things. I'm going to hula-hoop for three hours straight.

MATT: Laura's going to hula-hoop for three hours straight. You heard it here. Hold her to it.

ASHLEY: She's really good.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Liam's going to hold the plank position for two hours.

LIAM: Oh, that's easy.

TALIESIN: It's the one where you lie on your back, right?

TRAVIS: Yep. Roll like a turtle.

MATT: Hashtag flat on your back.

TALIESIN: I can do that one.

MATT: The reverse plank? Yeah. So yeah, check it out on Twitter as these yahoos figure out what their content is going to be next week. I'm sure it's going to be fantastic. We're going to be watching it from Australia. I'm excited to see what you guys pull together. Anyway. That's all I got. Has anyone else got something they want me to mention? Or shall we dive on in?

TRAVIS: Let's get it! Let's get it!

LAURA: No no no! Keep stalling!

MATT: All righty, then.

LIAM: Wait wait wait. I would like to say that I was into breaking my friends' hearts before it was cool.

(all laugh)

MATT: Sorry about that. Without further ado, let's go ahead and dive into this week's episode of Critical Role.

(spooky ethereal music) (heavy breathing) (roaring) (dramatic music) (gun firing) (dramatic music) (crackling flames)
Part I

MATT: Welcome back! So. Last we left off, Vox Machina, having returned to Vasselheim, in which Vax and to a lesser extent Percy had their own encounters with the Raven Queen. Vax found seemingly some catharsis and purpose to his currently-deemed champion position with the Raven Queen. Percy discovered he's been broken all along and left slightly slapped in the nuts. But such is the nature of your journey. But you also crafted a metal claw hand for an ally. But as you guys finish up your business in Vasselheim, you made your way back to Whitestone. While in Whitestone, you met up with some old friends, had dinner with Allura, Kima, the Realmseer, Gilmore. You guys discussed all the things that you needed to do in the future, some information had been acquired from some of the Vestiges, as well as the nature of some of the dragons of the Conclave and some discussion was had on the overall purpose of this recent incursion of dragon destruction. After which, you all went to bed. While resting, midnight, a visit from Gilmore to Vax's room after some oil prankery was beset upon each other via Grog and Vax. Gilmore gifted a fine silk robe to Vax and requested his presence to discuss time that has passed. Upon changing into the robe, you guys made your way down the hallway, up the stairs to one of the high balconies of the west tower of Whitestone. Upon which Gilmore turned, seemingly in some serious displeasure, and stabbed you with a dagger you had not seen was there. As the pain set in, you realized perhaps this is not the Gilmore you recall, but a shapeshifting, tiger-like devil entity that you may have pissed off some time in the past.

LIAM: Is it a sports mascot? It's a sports mascot.

MARISHA AND TALIESIN: They're grrreat!

MATT: That's not sports.

TRAVIS: Wow.

(all laugh)

MATT: Not that I'd know. Anyway, let's go ahead and jump in this moment. As the rest of the party is sleeping soundly, I would like you, Vax'ildan -

SAM: I am not sleeping.

MATT: You're not sleeping?

SAM: Remember, I said I was staying up to read my book.

MATT: To read your book, you're right, you are totally right. Well, I'm going to have you roll initiative, if you don't mind.

LIAM: I have a lot of interesting ideas that will go out the window depending on this roll, possibly.

TRAVIS: We're all watching.

LIAM: I don't like his reaction. I'm going to use luck. I have two lucks left, I'm going to use one of them. (groans) It was on 18 and went down. No, 16.

MATT: 16. All righty.

LIAM: Oh, well. It was going to be really interesting.

MATT: I can only imagine.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Shit.

MATT: Sorry.

TRAVIS: Thug Life glasses come down, joint comes up.

MATT: I didn't mean for it to come off that way, it just -

TRAVIS: Bu-bu-bu-bu-blam, gutshot!

(all laugh)

SAM: Play ding dong…

LIAM: It went 18, it hung like a half second… four.

MATT: As the surprise round has faded, the Gilmore-like entity draws the blade out of your abdomen, snarls towards you, and the round begins with the initiative on the rakshasa.

MARISHA: (groans)

TRAVIS: You got this, you're fine.

SAM: Wait, refresh us all. Is Liam - I'm sorry - is Vax naked?

MATT: No, Vax is wearing a long silk robe and his boots.

SAM: And what underneath?

MATT: And that's it.

SAM: So, he's naked.

LIAM: I'm wearing my boots, because it's cold. I wouldn't go walking barefoot.

MATT: Boots are a given. Everything else left behind.

SAM: No armor. No weapons.

LAURA: Remember, he was in his pajamas and Gilmore was like, “put this on, I made this for you.”

LIAM: Why wouldn't any of us trust Gilmore? Or Matthew?

MATT: I'm just telling a story, yo. Speaking of stories -

SAM: But wait! The robe has like a rope tie to tie. You can use that for something!

LIAM: Shush!

MATT: You're reading your book. So as it draws the blade back, it goes in for a claw towards the face,

LIAM: Uncanny Dodge?

MATT: Hold on to see if I hit you first.

LIAM: Oh, okay.

MATT: (chuckles) Because that is going to be a… 13 to hit. Your AC is 15.

LIAM: Misses.

MATT: The claw (whoosh). You duck underneath as it spins around with the dagger and hits you from the other side as you come up from that. That will be a 19 and does hit you.

LIAM: (funny voice) Uncanny Dodge?

MATT: You suffer five points of piercing damage as the dagger just barely (sssh) cuts across your face. You can feel the little line of blood begin to spill down your chin as you hear the growl under the breath again, “I will send you to a place you'll never return from.” (growls) and is actually going to stay right there. You're up.

LIAM: Now I can do my crazy-ass shit. So, out of instinct, the heels click together, the boots go on, the world slows down as I speed up and in that split second, in a millisecond, I think, “He's gone to all this trouble to get me here. The door behind me could very well be locked. Also, he knows everything. He knows about Whitestone. If he leaves, he can tell the Conclave and if I run, he's gone.” So instead… he's right in front of me, yeah? Okay. I would like to grapple him.

MATT: Okay. All right. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

LIAM: Okay. Last luck of the day. 14.

MATT: 16. You attempt to grapple and as soon as your arms reach around the rakshasa, Hotis breaks away.

LIAM: Okay. That's action number one. Action number two, I'd like to grapple him.

(all laugh)

LIAM: No good.

LAURA: Well, say it, he might roll less.

LIAM: Huh? Say what?

LAURA: Isn't it a roll against a roll?

MATT: Yes, it's a roll against a roll.

LIAM: It's a seven.

MATT: 17. Sorry.

LIAM: Okay, I will cast Lay on Hands on myself.

MATT: That is an action to do so.

LIAM: That's an action? Okay, then… I'll stay where I am.

MATT: Okay. All right.

LIAM: No, sorry! Sorry, sorry (mutters). At the top of my lungs I scream, not just in my earring but loud enough for every guard and person in the castle. I scream, “Assassins, western tower and the courtyard! Jenga!”

MATT: All right. Can I have all of you guys roll a perception check?

MARISHA: What about those of us with earrings?

LAURA: To wake us up?

SAM: I'm awake.

MATT: You're awake. You hear it.

TRAVIS: 16.

ASHLEY: 17.

LAURA: 26.

MARISHA: 16.

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: All right. Many of you jostle awake at the sound of the shouting into your ear. You hear a few words come through in the middle of your consciousness. You hear “tower, west, jenga.” That's as much as you make out. The first word was enough to just shake you awake and you're not quite sure what that word was, but you hear “west tower, jenga,” and you get the gist of that. You, however, did hear the full phrase. As you look around you, Percy, Keyleth, and Pike.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: You aren't alone in your room.

TRAVIS: (laughing gasp)

MATT: As climbing through the window, or in Percy's -

SAM: Ninjas!

MATT: - had come in through the hallway, you see -

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Ninjas.

MATT: - cloaked individuals, blades drawn up in the air, about to come down onto your asleep forms, as you suddenly look up and see the figure there before you -

MARISHA: Motherfucking ninjas!

MATT: - they look surprised to see you suddenly move. I need all of you guys to roll initiative to add to this initiative order.

TRAVIS: All three or everybody else?

LAURA: Everybody?

MATT: Everybody.

MARISHA: Oh my god. Ooh! That's not bad.

TRAVIS: Have advantage.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

TRAVIS: 18.

ASHLEY: Eight!

TRAVIS, LAURA, AND MATT: (chuckle)

LAURA: (southern drawl) 11.

MARISHA: 17.

TALIESIN: 23.

LAURA: Nice.

SAM: Is initiative an ability check?

(all laugh)

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Then I will inspire myself on my initiative roll.

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: You just got that ability at level 14.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: So.

SAM: So I will just say, “Come on Scanlan. Wake up! Wake up, man!”

(all laugh)

SAM: Oh, it's a one.

(all laugh)

SAM: No, it's a seven. It's a seven. That brings my initiative to 19.

MATT: 19.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: “Come on, man!”

MATT: All righty. Well, as you all wake up, the initiative round finishes as the attempted assassins do get their round on the three of you guys. So there is the one that is up against Keyleth right now is going to make two short sword attacks on you.

MARISHA: Aw, he beat me?

MATT: Yep. Well this is - as you guys wake up, you see them there, and they're finishing their combat round. So that's going to be a 19 to hit.

MARISHA: Hits.

MATT: That hits. Okay. You take nine points of piercing damage and make a constitution saving throw.

ASHLEY AND LAURA: Oh, god.

TRAVIS: Shit.

MARISHA: That can't be good. Okay…

TALIESIN: (wordless noise of approval)

MARISHA: 20, total.

MATT: Okay. You take 12 points of poison damage.

ASHLEY: With?

MARISHA: On top of I had nine originally?

MATT: Mm-hm.

MARISHA: Right?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: Okay. So that's…

MATT: The second strike is going to be another 19. Rolled 12 again. You take another nine points of piercing damage, and I need you to make another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: This is so much worse than I thought it was.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it.

MARISHA: I rolled a natural 19, so 24.

MATT: You take another 12 points of poison damage.

SAM: How many points?

TALIESIN: Wow, that's the good reaction, apparently.

MARISHA: Jesus, fuck. He just did 42 points of damage.

ASHLEY: What?

MARISHA: In one round. Yeah.

TRAVIS: Four-two? Four?!

MARISHA: 42!

MATT: So, the one that's there before you, Percy, as you're just sitting up out of your bed. That's going to be an - oh, that's a natural 17. 24 to hit.

TALIESIN: If I have an AC of 24, Am I fine or no? I mean an AC of 24 - never mind, it hits.

MATT: It still hits you and this is assuming also the fact that you guys were sleeping and not in your full armor, either.

TALIESIN: No, no that hits. No, actually - yeah, I can't do that, can I? Fuck.

MATT: That's eight points of piercing damage to you.

TALIESIN: (sighing) Yeah…

MATT: I need you to make a constitution saving throw

TALIESIN: All right. Don't be stupid. Oh, stupid. That's a natural one, that's what it is.

MATT: You suffer 24 points of poison damage. As whereas you manage to shrug off the effects, Percy, you feel as the short sword strikes across your flesh the wound that's left open in the front of your long johns suddenly begins to burn and feels like it's singeing, white-hot fire, like an iron just out of the forge has been pressed into your chest. The second strike rolls a natural two. It's going to be a nine.

TALIESIN: Nope, that does not hit.

MATT: This time, you actually duck out of the bed as it slams down on the wood, cutting into the side of the bed frame, ending that guy's round. That's going to bring us to the one that is against you, Pike.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: So, Pike.

ASHLEY: Yes?

MATT: First strike on you. That's going to be a 20 to hit.

ASHLEY: (chuckles) Just hits.

MATT: Though, not wearing your armor at this point in time.

LAURA: How do we know what our AC is?

ASHLEY: So what are we, then?

MATT: Your AC would be just 10 plus your dexterity modifier.

ASHLEY: So it's 11, so that hits.

MATT: 11. Yeah. You suffer five points of piercing damage and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

ASHLEY: Okay. 20?

MATT: All right, yeah. So you take 12 points of poison damage and that is going to be 10, so that misses you.

ASHLEY: Great.

MATT: Yeah. So you take an additional 12 points of poison damage from the last strike.

ASHLEY: So five plus 12?

MATT: Correct. 17 total, and the second strike goes to hit you and you actually reach over, grab your shield which is sitting on the table by your bed and just (ping) knock the blade nearly out of his hand but deflecting the blow. That brings us to the top of the initiative round now. You guys are all conscious. Some of you are aware of the danger you're currently in. Percy you're up first. What are you doing?

TALIESIN: I do keep my small pistol under my pillow.

MATT: Of course you do. (laughs) Yes, you would, Percy.

TALIESIN: I don't have access, in theory, to the big gun, the sword, which are under the bed and that would require a thing, and I also don't have access to any of the things I could use to reload it, but I do have four shots.

MATT: You do.

TALIESIN: Okay. Where's my room?

MATT: Your room is right here.

TALIESIN: I don't have a window, do I?

MATT: No, you do not have a window. Your room is on the inside

TRAVIS: What floor are we on?

MATT: You guys are on the second major floor of the castle. The west tower, as you know, is up this way. The staircase leads up and then spirals up to the west tower.

SAM: Do we know how far?

MATT: You haven't - you've maybe explored there a few times. It's between 60 to 70 feet up.

SAM: We've not been there, we're not familiar with it.

MATT: Percy would be pretty familiar with it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I would.

MATT: You guys may have gone there here and there.

TALIESIN: You've seen it. It's not that big a castle, to be honest.

MARISHA: So there are windows that they came through? They came in the windows?

MATT: These two came in the windows, this one you're not sure, may have come in through other means or through another window.

MARISHA: Who are you pointing at? Percy's?

MATT: The one that's in Percy's room.

MARISHA: But we have windows.

MATT: Right.

MARISHA: That are open to the outside.

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Is mine standing against the door?

MATT: Currently, yes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and shoot him through the door to see if I can blow him out of my room. With trick shot. So.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Trick shot to blow him out of the room, Let's… Let's… Yeah, no, I'm not adding a sharpshooter for that, fuck that. First shot. Oh god, I'm nervous. (high pitched voice) That'll do. It's 22.

MATT: Yeah, that'll hit. They're only wearing studded leather.

TALIESIN: Okay. Good enough.

MATT: And they're caught off guard at how suddenly everyone, or at least you, were suddenly conscious. He was so quiet, he was so quiet and yet you still got there before he could stab you.

TALIESIN: Okay and that's got an auto push, I think, or do I have to roll for push?

MATT: I believe -

TALIESIN: Strength saving throw.

MATT: Yeah. That is going to be a five plus zero, none. No. So. how much damage is that total?

TALIESIN: That does… sorry. I was not prepared. I thought I was going to watch a fight.

MATT: (chuckles)

TALIESIN: I was really prepared for that. That's 11 points of piercing damage.

MATT: All right. And pushes him how far back?

TALIESIN: Once… how many squares? That's a good question. That's 10 feet directly away.

MATT: (thwoosh) It pushes him out through the door. You guys hear this muffled (pshew) gunshot in the distance and this slamming sound of a heavy wooden door hitting stone. Percy, as you watch, as (boof) he's blown through the doorway, landing into the hallway on his back, and jumps back to his feet just in time with his blade still out in front of him.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take two more shots on him. The next shot is a Sharpshooter shot.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Minus five to hit. Yeah, no that's a 13.

MATT: 13. As you aim this time and fire for a second time (pshew) he does see it coming and ducks out of the way as it just scoots under his hood, avoiding his head and leaving a hole in the fabric and then (kssh) taking a chunk out of the stone in the wall behind him.

TALIESIN: Okay, final shot is - I'm using the head shot to try and blind him for a round, so…

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's no sharpshooter because that sucked. That's better! 28 to hit.

MATT: That'll do. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: He needs to roll a constitution saving throw.

MATT: He rolls a 20 total.

TALIESIN: And that's against - I just rolled so terribly… 20. It's a 19 DC, so unless that changes with my new intelligence?

MATT: Yeah so it doesn't - it isn't affected by -

TALIESIN: He just takes seven points of damage

MATT: It was sharpshooter, wasn't it? It's a +10?

TALIESIN: What? No, that wasn't sharpshooter. I just did the middle one sharpshooter.

MATT: Gotcha. Okay. Seven points piercing damage on that. (pshew) While the first hit managed to miss his face, this one does (whoosh) scrape across his chin and cracks a bit of his cheekbone, but not too much of an impact on him to actually affect his eyesight.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my movement and bonus to grab at least some of the stuff that's under my bed. Some of my things and start to put myself together and steady myself and I'll start yelling bloody murder.

MATT: Okay. You guys, at this point, start hearing the distant echo of Percy's voice screaming in the distance.

TALIESIN: Intruders! Intruders!

MATT: At the end of Percy's turn, that now brings us back to the rakshasa, which is narrowed down. Takes the dagger and as a bonus dips it back into the sheath, pulling it out with the liquid trailing off of it. It's going to go in and attempt to claw and strike.

ASHLEY: No…

MATT: That's going to be a 23 with the claw.

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: You take 10 points of slashing damage.

LIAM: Where did my thing go?

LAURA: Here take it, I'm sorry.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: And then the dagger is also going to be thrust back at you as it moves this way, getting between you and the door. That strike is going to be a 21 to hit.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right. This time with the dagger. That's going to be four plus… that's going to be…

LIAM: Uncanny Dodge on it.

MATT: Seven points of piercing damage and then I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: 20, natural 20.

LAURA: (happy grunting noise)

EVERYONE BUT MATT AND LIAM: (groans in relief)

LIAM: There was some damage, though. It was what?

MATT: An additional seven points of poison damage. You used Uncanny Dodge on this. That all gets reduced to just seven total.

LIAM: I did use Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: So it would've been 14 total. You take it down to seven.

LIAM: I lost track of what was what.

MATT: Sorry. Seven points of piercing and seven points of poison together would be 14. Your Uncanny Dodge brings it down to seven. So you just take seven points of damage that round.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: All right. That will end Hotis's turn. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Okay. I'll use, I guess, some movement to gather my belongings and anything that I don't still have on.

MATT: I mean, everything that you have would also include your armor, which you can't really put on right now. It would take you about a minute to put it on, as it is leather armor, but you can grab everything else if you wanted to. Or you could carry your armor awkwardly with you.

SAM: I'll just grab a couple of instruments.

MATT: Okay. (grabbing sound) You gather some things.

SAM: And go. I'll grab the shawm and the Mythcarver.

MATT: Okay. (grabbing noises)

SAM: And if I've ever been up there, I'm going to try to Dimension Door to the west tower.

MATT: Okay. All righty.

SAM: I don't know if I'm familiar enough with it, but I'll give it a shot.

MATT: All right. You would've walked through the castle at some point in the past. You grab your things.

ASHLEY: I've been there with you.

SAM: What did we do up there?

TRAVIS: Made out.

ASHLEY: Like just so much stuff there, so we've totally been there.

TRAVIS: Under the moonlight.

SAM: Did you have hickies afterward, or something?

SAM AND TRAVIS: (laugh)

SAM: Oh, it worked!

MATT: At the distance it is at that point and plus the fact that you have been there before, you concentrate, you remember a few nights you walked up there to look over the grounds because it's a beautiful view and it's close to where you guys usually stay here in the castle. (zoopf) You come out of the Dimension Door and looking before you, you can see Gilmore holding a dagger out to one side and Vax bleeding, holding and clutching the front of his abdomen, eyes darting around wildly, trying to think of some sort of plan for survival. So that's your action, that's most of your movement…

SAM: That's - I mean, that's pretty much all I've got. I imagine I would be pretty confused, so -

MATT: Yeah, you're taking in the circumstances.

SAM: I will probably just, if I have any time left, I'll just say, “What the fuck is going on, Gilmore?” And that's it.

MATT: The Gilmore looks over his shoulder and sneers at you. (hissing growl)

SAM: Oh, shit.

(all laugh)

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I spring out of my bed because I don't sleep with any armor on, I got all me bits on me, and I grab my axe and I kick the door open!

MATT: (boof)

TRAVIS: Because I know jenga. It's one of my favorite words. I'm like, (wordless aggressive sounds) Is there anybody in the hallway?

MATT: There's nobody in the hallway.

LAURA: No no no. I thought the gunman was in the hallway?

MATT: Hmm?

LAURA: Percy's gunman was in the hallway.

MATT: Grog is sleeping in this side of the hallway.

LAURA: Oh, shit!

TALIESIN: Oh.

TRAVIS: Where are the stairs?

MATT: Around that way.

TRAVIS: Fucking shit! So I start tearing down the hallway as far as me little legs can carry me.

MATT: About there if you want to take a dash.

TRAVIS: I'll dash.

MATT: That's your movement and your dash, your action. You get to there as you come around and see a guy in full black cloak and some bullets (tssh) flying by, shattering the stonework behind. And then you see this humanoid character holding a short sword at his side, growling. He sees you looming down the hallway and his eyes go wide for a moment, unexpected to see this giant train of a muscled entity charging down.

TRAVIS: And the dash was my bonus action right?

MATT: No, the dash is your action.

TRAVIS: So I have a bonus?

MATT: You have a bonus, yes.

TRAVIS: Can I look down and say, “Hello, muppet.” And I would like to rage.

(all laugh)

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: Golf clap.

LAURA: Golf clap.

MARISHA: Good play, good play.

TRAVIS: Polite as fuck.

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. So this guy is by the door, yeah? Or by the window?

MATT: Mm-hm.

MARISHA: How far away from the window? Like, is his back up against the window?

MATT: Like - like basically just stepped out of the window and you were immediately next to it, so the window is right to his left as he's staring down at you with a blade in the air.

MARISHA: It's an open window.

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Bars on it or something?

LAURA: He came in.

MATT: It looks like the window is easy enough for somebody to slip through. It's an open window.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: It's a nice neighborhood. There's no bars on the windows.

MARISHA: I'm trying to think which way I want to go with this.

MATT: Make it quick.

MARISHA: I'm going to towards him do a Thunderwave push (boof) and try and push him out the window. Thunderwave.

MATT: So you're going to move around him first?

MARISHA: Oh, does he have me up against the window?

MATT: You're up against the wall. If you want to Thunderwave him, you'd have to get on the other side of him to knock him away from you.

MARISHA: And he'll get an attack of opportunity, I'm assuming?

MATT: No, because you don't leave his combat.

MARISHA: Oh. Okay, yeah, I'll just shoulder around him.

MATT: You dart off the edge of the bed, catching yourself on the ground, turn around the other side and (boof). What's the DC on that?

MARISHA: Jesus, I don't know. I don't do this very often.

MATT: (singsong) DC of Thunderwave. Vax, you're up next, prepare.

MARISHA: It is a constitution saving throw.

MATT: And what's your spell DC?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: That is a nine plus two, 11. That's not enough. How much damage does he take?

MARISHA: He takes 2d8 damage and he is pushed 10 feet.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Hopefully out the window because that's what I was going for.

TALIESIN: It's a small room.

MARISHA: That was cocked. Four damage.

MATT: Four points of thunder damage. However, (boomf) it slams him back. His feet hit the edge of the lip of the window. He goes flipping backwards out the side. He's going to attempt to reach out and grab it.

TRAVIS: Please fail.

MATT: That is a natural two.

(all cheer)

MATT: (thwoop) You hear, “Nooo!”

ASHLEY: Yes!

MATT: As he's flung out the window. You don't even hear the landing, he's just out of the room now.

TALIESIN: Full on Wilhelm scream.

TRAVIS: Nice. Nice job.

TALIESIN: (imitates Wilhelm scream)

LIAM: How about a Howard Dean?

MARISHA: And then I'm going to take just -

MATT: You have a few more… 15 more feet you can run, if you want to.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to throw open the door and just peek out the door and see what's up.

MATT: Okay, you throw the door open. Immediately out, you see Grog standing in the hallway clutching the axe, kind of sleepy-eyed, but filled with hatred and intent to kill, while grinning in the center of the hallway.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to come over my comm and just say, “Status report, where is everybody?” And that's it.

MATT: Okay, after Keyleth's turn, that brings us to Vax.

LIAM: I can't see through the corner of the wall there. Is Scanlan like 10 feet away? Five feet away?

MATT: Scanlan is 10 feet from you.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to skirt along on his side, the rakshasa's side, and shout out, “It's not Gilmore, it's a fucking demon!” at Scanlan, and then I'm going to use my first action to try to disarm kitty-cat.

MARISHA: Meow.

MATT: Okay. All right.

LIAM: What is that?

TRAVIS: Disarm him?

MATT: Go ahead and make… go ahead and make an attack roll - or no, for this one, let's make an athletics check to try. It's essentially a type of grapple.

LIAM: All right. Uh, 16.

MATT: 16. Okay, you reach out and manage to grab the Gilmore's wrist, holding the dagger. His arm goes up and starts clawing these fingernails, these currently not-even-visible fingernails that all of a sudden turn into these large hooks that start tearing into your skin. Go ahead and make a strength check to see if you can wrestle the blade from his grasp.

LIAM: And this is the next action?

MATT: This would be the next action, yeah. Since you don't have any disarm-based abilities, this is a more involved -

LIAM: 15. That's still acrobatics, right?

MATT: No no no, this -

LIAM: What'd you say?

MATT: This is all athletics.

LIAM: This is athletics. Same thing, sorry, yeah. 15.

MATT: Yeah, 15?

LIAM: 15.

MATT: You still have the grip on him, but unfortunately his fingers are too tight on the blade and you can't quite pull it out.

LIAM: Okay, then, for the rest of my turn, I whip my head to Scanlan, say, “Follow me down. I'm going down.” And I want to drag him off the balcony, and go with him.

MATT: Okay, you can drag him at half-speed -

LIAM: Half-speed. I'm hasted.

MATT: Hasted.

LIAM: 12 squares, full.

MATT: (fwwsh)

(all shout)

MATT: You watch, Sam, as he grabs this apparently Gilmore character, looks at you, tells you this, and then they both just hit the edge and tumble over the side of the balcony and go falling off.

LIAM: This takes two seconds to go down. I looked it up. 80 feet is two seconds.

MATT: Yep. (whoosh whoosh boomf) You hear two impacts.

SAM: But I just got here! Don't leave!

MATT: Both you and Hotis… 36 points of damage as you both (boomf) hit the bottom, this stone surface, essentially the ceiling and the beginnings of the entire castle here on the top, both prone on the ground, dazed from the impact.

LIAM: Really hoping the guards are awake.

LAURA: Really hoping.

MATT: All righty. Ending your turn, that brings us to the assassins. So -

ASHLEY: But we didn't -

LAURA: But we didn't get to go. Do assassins get to go twice?

MATT: No, you guys go after them because that was how the initiative order happened.

LAURA: (biting noise)

TRAVIS: Yep.

LIAM: That was three points of damage.

MATT: Him yelling and waking you guys up avoided them getting an auto-crit on their first attack.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

TRAVIS: Oh, god.

MATT: So be happy that at least you woke up for the last round.

LAURA: That's good, that's good.

ASHLEY: I'm happy, I'm happy.

TALIESIN: Thank you, Matt.

LIAM: So happy! Happy.

MATT: Happy.

TRAVIS: Thanks, Matt.

MATT: So that's two strikes against you, Pike, and then this one here looks over the shoulder and sees you, Grog, and is going to start darting this way… and currently is out of sight.

MARISHA: The assassin doucher?

MATT: Yep.

MATT: The one that's attacking you, Pike -

LIAM: I assume what I said to Scanlan was heard over earring as well.

MATT: Most likely, yeah. That'll be a 22.

ASHLEY: Well, yes.

(all laugh)

MATT: You take seven points of piercing damage, and roll another constitution saving throw.

ASHLEY: Seven points?

MATT: Yep.

ASHLEY: Okay. That's fine. Seven points.

MATT: And roll a constitution saving throw when you can. The second strike, this time, you slam his hand with the shield and you can see he actually drops the blade and has to rush over to pick it up.

ASHLEY: 13?

MATT: 13. You suffer 24 points of poison damage as the first strike this time cuts you right across the clavicle and down to the front of your chest, and it's just, that sharp burning pain for a second and as you knock the other hit away, all of a sudden you feel the (oomf oomf). Your ears fill with bright, burning-hot warmth and all of sudden the pain from your wound begins to pulse with every heartbeat as the poison hits your system.

ASHLEY: Nice. Okay.

MATT: And he's going to move this way to start getting between you and the doorway. That's going to end their turns. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to get up, I'm going to yell at Trinket to run out the door, and I'm going to grab my arrows and my quiver and my broom.

MATT: Trinket's going into a full - we'll say he can do a full dash.

LAURA: Can he get to the guy?

MATT: He's gotten that far up the hallway. He doesn't see anybody yet. You grab your stuff. All right. That'll be an action to get all of your things together.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Your quiver, your arrows…

LAURA: The broom.

MATT: The broom.

LAURA: And I take off running to the west tower. So we don't see the guy outside of Percy's room?

MATT: Nope. That's as far as you get, there. Cool. That ends Vex's turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. So, I'm going to take out my hand, and I'm going to Guiding Bolt him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Take out your hand?

TRAVIS: I'm going to take out my hand!

ASHLEY: My trusty old hand.

MATT: The wound across your chest with the pulsing poison, suddenly the area that was once dark begins to light up as the holy symbol that forever hangs around your neck begins to glow with vibrant divine energy, this whitish-yellow pulse of light. The assassin, standing there grinning, seeing that he's getting the upper hand, all of a sudden realizes that you aren't as disarmed as he thought you were. Go ahead and roll for the attack on this.

TRAVIS: Smoke him!

ASHLEY: 28.

MATT: That'll hit. Go ahead and roll damage on that. What level were you casting it at?

ASHLEY: I'm going to do it at four.

MATT: Usually you decide that before you roll the attack, but yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: Puddins, Pike.

ASHLEY: I was going to. That's what I was going to do.

MATT: I assumed you were. That's fine.

ASHLEY: But I didn't tell you that. How many do I roll? Hold on, hold on, hold on.

MATT: Let me look it up for you. Guiding Bolt is 4d6 -

ASHLEY: Seven, right?

MATT: - and then it would be an additional 3d6 for 7d6 radiant damage against him.

ASHLEY: Yeah, seven, okay. Okay, so.

TRAVIS: Yep, eight.

ASHLEY: Eight.

TRAVIS: 11, 19.

TRAVIS: Seven, 26.

LAURA: One more.

ASHLEY: What was it?

TRAVIS: 27.

ASHLEY: 27 points.

MATT: 27 points, nice. You see his eyes widen as suddenly you blast him in the face with this Guiding Bolt. The impact just (boof) bursting across him, leaving this trail of divine fire that's burning around the seams of his leather armor. He's trying to pat it out, but it won't go out. While it's not burning him, it's lighting him up like a Christmas tree, and Grog, you see - from underneath Pike's door, you see a little bit of a bright divine glow flash out from under the door and you hear a couple thumps against the wood from inside the room.

TRAVIS: And that's her, the one to the right of me?

LAURA: Yeah, which ones are everybody's rooms?

MATT: This is Vex's room, Keyleth's, Pike's, Percy -

SAM: The one that smells like patchouli is mine.

MATT: Yeah. Scanlan's and Grog's and Vax's were over here.

LAURA: Okay.

ASHLEY: So can I move out of the room?

MATT: You can try to, yeah.

ASHLEY: I grabbed all my stuff and then I'm going to make my way out.

MATT: Okay, all your stuff would be - You have your shield already that you pulled off the side. You can grab maybe one weapon and go. You're not going to get armor, though.

ASHLEY: I'll grab my mace.

MATT: So you grab your mace, all right.

LIAM: You're in a slip or nothing, so.

ASHLEY: I sleep naked.

TRAVIS: Thatta girl!

SAM: So you're naked with a shield and a mace.

TRAVIS: That's a bad bitch.

LAURA: Hell yeah, she is.

LIAM: Monster!

MATT: Shield, mace, holy symbol -

ASHLEY: Do I have my gauntlets on or no?

MATT: Nothing else. Yeah, your gauntlets are on.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: We'll say the gauntlets were there, you slip them on real fast. As he's pulled back and trying to pat out the flames, you grab your things and rush through. He does get an attack of opportunity on you as you run out of his combat range, so he's going to swing at you. That is going to be a 16.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: That does hit. With your shield, what's your AC? It would be 11-13, so yeah, it still hits. So you take five points of piercing damage. I need you to roll another constitution saving throw.

SAM: Man. Pikey.

ASHLEY: That is a five?

MATT: You take another 24 of poison damage.

SAM: Oh my gosh, she going to die.

LAURA: Oh, no!

ASHLEY: No no no, I don't think I'm uncon - wait, 24 points? I got one hit point left.

SAM: How did that happen so fast?

LAURA: She took 24 twice!

TRAVIS: Poison sucks.

MATT: Assassins, man.

SAM: What are these assassins?

MARISHA: Bullshit.

LIAM: Heal and run, heal and run, heal and run.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: Does she burst out in the hallway naked with a mace and a shield?

MATT: Naked with a mace and shield, glowing holy symbol, and just gash across her chest, blood pouring from the wound.

LAURA: Oh, Pike!

MATT: Sweat on her brow, one eye's half-closed. She's barely standing.

SAM: And weirdly hairy shoulders.

(all laugh)

LIAM: That's why I never take the armor off, guys.

MARISHA: No!

ASHLEY: And hairy chest. Just full hairy chest.

MATT: Ending Pike's turn.

SAM: Oh, god. I never knew.

MATT: Percy, you're up.

LIAM: Still love me, Scanlan?

TALIESIN: I'm going to run out of my - I'm grabbing just the basics. Gloves and the gunbelt and my gun stuff. No armor.

SAM: Gun stuff.

TALIESIN: No amulet. Running out in the front, what do I -

MATT: Amulet, you would probably - you don't need to take that off to sleep, so I'll let you have that.

TALIESIN: Okay, so fine, I'll just have that. All right, so no armor, so.

TALIESIN: Which direction is the west?

MATT: This way.

TALIESIN: It's this way, and do I see any, I don't see what -

MATT: You don't see anyone, you just see Pike burst out of her room suddenly, bloodied.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to run past her room towards the west, and do I have a view right there?

MATT: You now have a view of a guy beaming with divine light, trying to pat out divine flames after swinging and getting a nice heavy wound on Pike, who looks like she's barely standing.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to take a couple -

LIAM: Fuck him up. Fuck him up.

TRAVIS: If he takes care of you, though…

TALIESIN: I get one foot, stop, turn around. I draw my sword and I'm just going to go stabby on the bastard because I haven't reloaded my gun yet.

TRAVIS: That was in Pike's room?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Good, okay.

TALIESIN: I can get there.

MATT: This is the end of your movement.

TALIESIN: Oh, right there? Okay. Then fine, I'll just unload the gun. That'll be fun.

MATT: So you have a fourth shot.

TALIESIN: I have a fourth shot and then another one, yeah.

MATT: Okay. Regular shot?

TALIESIN: No, sharpshooter.

MATT: Sharpshooter, okay. You have advantage on this shot, by the way, because of the Guiding Bolt that she did to him.

SAM: Ooh!

TALIESIN: Oh, I do?

MATT: Yeah, because the divine fire that's surrounding him is lighting him up like a giant birthday candle.

TALIESIN: All right, that'll be 28 to hit.

MATT: That'll hit. Go ahead and roll damage on that one.

SAM: Hashtag gun stuff.

LIAM: Quentin Tarantino joined.

TALIESIN: 22 points of damage.

LIAM AND MARISHA: Gun stuff.

MATT: (gunshot sound) The Guiding Bolt flares off. The impact hits him and sends him on his back foot. He looks over and sees the smoke pouring out of the barrel as you're aiming down for another shot. You reload real fast.

TALIESIN: Taking another shot at him.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Advantage?

MATT: No, that was just the first one.

TALIESIN: That's okay, I still rolled really great.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: That's okay, I still rolled well.

TALIESIN: I was hoping for a critical, but whatever.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm not going to need it.

ASHLEY: Fucking nailed it.

MATT: Just wanted to check.

TALIESIN: 25 to hit.

MATT: The dungeon master will remember this. No, it's fine. So go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter as well?

TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was… 24 points of damage.

MATT: 24 points of damage… (gunshot) The second shot. You reload, fire again. This time this one hits him right square in what looks like the side of his jaw, shattered his cheekbone and his jaw and there's now blood and teeth pouring out and he's clutching the side of it, shaking his head. He's in a really bad place right now and is looking over the back window, realizing he's probably going to -

TALIESIN: Fuck it, let's burn an Action Surge. This'll be funny.

LAURA: Percy tastes blood.

TALIESIN: That's, 16, 17, 18, 19… 25?

MATT: That hits.

ASHLEY: Get him!

TALIESIN: That's 19 points of damage?

MATT: With that, as he's turning around, about to dart towards the window, as he spins around in his space, you take aim a second, or now a third time on him, fire… You watch. It's obscured to see; all you see is the moonlight from the outside sky coming through and the silhouette of his head, and now the missing silhouette of his head - as you scatter the top half of his skull across the stone surrounding the window in Pike's room.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Percy.

TALIESIN: I reload.

ASHLEY: I had him, but thanks.

TALIESIN: I drop a health potion and then steady to take care of that and reload my guns with the rest of my turn.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. All right. Ending Percy's turn, you're currently on the ground now, you're both prone. Hotis stands up, using half of his movement, looks down at you, “You're clever.” Which, for the record, the illusion has faded. The Gilmore visage is no more. Now you see before you the angry, curled bare-teeth face of the familiar rakshasa. “The feeling's mutual.” As you are currently prone on the ground, it has advantage on you. It's going to go ahead and… make two strikes with the dagger against you. With advantage, yeah, that'll be 25?

LIAM: He didn't redip, though. I don't remember you saying he redipped, right? He used his poison last time and I made the save?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Right? Okay. So that hits. Uncanny Dodge?

MATT: Right. So the first one hits. You take… 10 points of piercing damage. No poison.

ASHLEY: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Sorry, I'm nervously playing with it.

LIAM: Sorry. One more time?

MATT: 10 points of piercing damage.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: He's going to dip the blade, remembering that he forgot that after the first strike. Then with the second strike he's going to stab down once more.

LIAM: That's just a bonus to do that?

MATT: Yeah. That's going to be a 21. You suffer 11 points of piercing damage. Plus 10 points of poison damage.

LAURA: No more!

LIAM: I'm unconscious.

MATT: Unconscious. So as you get up, he just stabs and stabs again, and this time as your finger's extended the pain hits you and you just watch your vision fade to darkness.

LAURA: No.

MATT: That's the end of his turn. He has no more attacks, so he just watches you go limp.

LIAM: For my turn, I'll be dead.

LAURA: No.

MATT: All right. Well, Scanlan, you're up first.

SAM: I go to the ledge and look over.

MATT: Yeah, you look over the ledge, down about 70 feet, 80 feet on the stonework, you see and watch as the rakshasa, now fully visible, Gilmore visage gone, jams the blade twice into the currently laid-out back of Vax, as Vax's body goes limp, unconscious. Drawing the blade, chuckling, throwing it up in the air, catching it, and is preparing to go down for some finishing blows.

SAM: Okay, shit. My stuff doesn't go that far, does it? Any of my vocal spells, only goes 60 -

MATT: Only about 60 feet, yeah.

SAM: Yeah, fuck. All right. Well then, for my action-slash-attack, I, overcome with fury seeing my friend on the ground, pull out Mythcarver and just fucking jump and plunge.

LAURA: Oh my god!

TALIESIN: Yes!

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Yes yes yes.

MATT: So you leap, (shhh) -

SAM: And I have advantage because I've inspired myself.

(all laugh)

MATT: I'll say for the purposes of this action, you will have advantage on the strike, as -

SAM: But I'm also exhausted.

MATT: Right, but that doesn't affect your actual attack roll. That's more your ability check. Actually, you should have had disadvantage earlier for that.

SAM: I rolled twice for that.

MATT: Oh, you did? Okay, good. So as you come down, quiet. Currently overcome with the now possibility of vengeance before it, the rakshasa does not seem to notice you as you fall off silently, blade down, (whoosh) wind rushing past your face, the tunnel-vision before you as you can see this whole scene play out before you. The blade comes down, slamming. Go ahead and roll with advantage your attack against the rakshasa.

SAM: 14. 15. Plus I don't know what! I don't do these things!

TRAVIS: I've never hit!

SAM: Strength? Is that strength?

MATT: It should be written on your attack. It would be your proficiency bonus plus your -

SAM: Oh, it's plus eight.

MATT: Yeah, so.

SAM: That's a 23.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 23 definitely hits.

TRAVIS: Nice.

SAM: Okay.

ASHLEY: Nicely done!

SAM: I don't know what to do now. I roll a d8?

MATT: Go ahead and roll your d8 plus damage.

SAM: Okay. Eight plus three, so that's 11. Plus 1d6 force damage. Six! Holy shit!

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: This is happening. This is happening.

SAM: So that's 11, that's 17. Right?

MATT: 17?

SAM: Okay.

MATT: I'm adding to that attack half of the damage you take from the fall. Because of the force of yourself and the blade. So the damage you take from the fall…

TRAVIS: I don't know what that expression was.

LAURA: Yeah, I know, is that good or bad? Both?

TALIESIN: It's either a lot or a little.

MATT: 29 points of damage you suffer, slamming into the ground and falling prone from the attack. But he does suffer an additional 14 points of damage as the blade (sssh) just sinks into the shoulder and the torso and he tenses in pain as the blade is still jammed into his form. You let go of it as you slam into the ground and he draws it out with a spurt of blood and throws it to the ground angrily, spinning around towards you, still holding the dagger aloft, looking over.

SAM: Do I still get my bonus action?

MATT: You do, technically, yeah.

SAM: Okay, so I, on the ground, turn over to Vax and I'll bonus Healing Word him.

LAURA: Oh, thank god.

SAM: And I will sing with whatever wind I have left in my body, “(singing) Vax'ildan, you're going to put up a good fight, Vax'ildan, I need you to put up a good fight. Put up a good fight! Put up a good fight!”

TRAVIS: (laughing) Is that “Roxanne?”

SAM: That's “Roxanne.”

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: I couldn't even join in because it was so good.

LIAM: So in love with you right now. So in love with you.

SAM: Four! I'm rolling great! Plus five. So you have nine hit points!

MATT: So you come back to consciousness face-down on the ground, scattered out on the stonework and the last thing, as your eyes come open, you hear the gentle tunes of Scanlan's voice calling you back from the darkness. You glance out the corner of your eye and see that Hotis is still standing with the dagger up on top.

LIAM: It was just my turn in the initiative. Can I go?

MATT: No, your turn's not yet. We have Grog, Keyleth, and then you. They actually got initiative higher than you, so.

LIAM: Oh, okay, okay.

MATT: We're coming to you, don't worry. So your turn hasn't happened yet.

LIAM: Okay. I totally - I trust in you, Matt.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: And fear you.

MATT: Good. All right, that brings us to… Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: So I heard him say, “I'm going down,” right? We all heard him say he's going down as he was falling?

MATT: Roll an intelligence check.

SAM: Oh, boy.

TRAVIS: This'll be great. Ah! 18 minus…

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Minus two. 16.

MATT: 16. It takes you a moment, and you have to bite your tongue for a moment as you're running down the hallway, but you ascertain that probably means… It's a tower, probably jumped off the tower!

TRAVIS: Yeah, probably. I look out and I say, “Oh, Pike, you're in your birthday suit! Are you all right?”

ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm fine, I'm fine, I'm fine.

SAM: She's bleeding all over.

ASHLEY: Wait, did I take - I took a potion on the -

MATT: Well, he had the potion on the ground.

TALIESIN: I threw you a minor. It's not much.

ASHLEY: I'm going to be fine, I'm going to be fine.

TRAVIS: Okay. Is there a window in the hallway? My question is, is the courtyard through those windows?

MATT: The courtyard would be over here, actually.

TRAVIS: Right. Is there -

MARISHA: In relation to where we are?

MATT: This is no longer really part of the deal, so in relation to where you guys are, they're about here.

TRAVIS: Do all of the rooms have windows, or is there a window in the hallway?

MATT: All of the rooms that have windows are the ones on that side, so currently the only way to get here would be to travel back where you came from and find an exit out to the top of the -

TRAVIS: Fucking ass.

MARISHA: I was going to try and handle that.

TALIESIN: Do those stairs go to the west tower, by the way?

MATT: These stairs go to the west tower, yes.

TALIESIN: Cool, just checking.

TRAVIS: Can I hold my… turn until Keyleth goes?

MATT: All right. You can still move, though, if you want to.

TRAVIS: I will - where are you?

MARISHA: I'm right behind you. In the room, in the door behind you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I can go back in.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: I should just stay there if you're going to make a door.

MARISHA: Hey, Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: You want to jump from really high?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I just want out.

MARISHA: All right.

TRAVIS: So I'll hold until Keyleth goes, and I won't move. I'll stay there, because she's right beside -

MATT: What action are you holding?

TRAVIS: I will hold my… movement.

MATT: Well, no, I mean, the movement gets used in your turn regardless. You just choose what action you want to hold as a trigger, so if something's going to happen, you would then use whatever your action is. Your movement you have to use now, or it's lost.

TRAVIS: I have to choose what she's going to do? I'm so confused.

LAURA: Well, you won't be able to move once she goes. You won't be able to do an action because you're trapping yourself.

TALIESIN: It's like, “I'm holding everything until she makes a door.”

MATT: Your impulse hit now and if you decide not to move, then the impulse loses the movement, so.

TRAVIS: I don't know. I don't know what to say, I -

SAM: Yeah, you can't really do anything.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't move.

MARISHA: He's just holding his action -

TRAVIS: I decide to stand still.

SAM: Yeah, but just to get through this portal, he's going to have to move. It's a whole other turn.

TRAVIS: Otherwise, I'm running down a hallway for no reason. I just don't move. I just stand there dumbfounded that Pike is naked and cut to shit.

MATT: Okay. That ends Grog's turn. You're up.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to reach over, put on my circlet in my nightgown.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I'm going to step out, look left and right. Okay. And then, going off what Grog was saying, I'm going to walk behind Grog and I'm going to do Stone Shape. I'm going to blast a door into that wall, blast a giant hole. Yeah.

MATT: All right. (boof) As you tear this wall open there -

MARISHA: Yeah, dude. Yeah.

LAURA: Awesome.

MATT: - it opens up before you and you can see a little bit of it gets pushed to the side, because it's a little bit elevated from the roof area, but you force it upward to where it bursts open and creates a slight ramp that leads up to what would be the roof of this part of Whitestone Castle.

MARISHA: Okay. Cool. And then I'll - Can I see Pike from where I am?

MATT: You can, yes.

MARISHA: I'm going to look at her and give her a Healing Word, just a level one Healing Word.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: You are going to heal -

ASHLEY: Thanks, pal.

MARISHA: Oh, it's not great. Sorry. So seven points.

ASHLEY: I'll take it.

MATT: All right. You still have a little bit of movement if you want to use it.

MARISHA: I'll step back a little bit out of Grog's way.

MATT: Okay. There you go.

MARISHA: Not that, back towards you.

MATT: Okay, got you. So it'd be there, probably, far as you can get.

MARISHA: Sure, yeah. So he can get by.

MATT: All right, cool. That brings us to Vax. Your turn.

MARISHA: Oh, Grog.

TRAVIS: No, but I can't do anything.

MARISHA: You can't do anything? Oh, I thought he held -

MATT: You didn't say you were holding an action for anything.

TRAVIS: I wanted to move through the door once she made it.

MATT: I'll let you do it. You're generally not supposed to do -

TRAVIS: What do I say, I hold a dash? Or a hold a movement?

MATT: Say you hold a dash. You could do that, yeah.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay. I would like to hold a dash.

MATT: Okay. So yeah, then you just go ahead and -

TRAVIS: We're still learning.

TALIESIN: You can hold a dash for Keyleth's turn.

TALIESIN AND TRAVIS: Hold a dash for Keyleth's turn.

TALIESIN: And then she moves and then you go.

TRAVIS: I didn't do my homework.

MATT: So as Keyleth opens the window, you dash up and rush onto the rooftop, and there you can see across the way…

MARISHA: I give him a good-game smack on the ass as he runs by.

SAM: Naked ass.

LAURA: He's got his normal clothes on.

LIAM: Always naked.

TALIESIN: He's naked.

LAURA: We're all naked.

TRAVIS: Well, I only sleep naked in the lady-favors house.

LIAM: Question. Grabbing a weapon off the ground, that's a freebie, right? Is that a bonus action? I feel like that's - I think that's free?

MATT: As part of an action, you can pick it -

LIAM: Part of an action? All right, great. I'm going to thank the Raven Queen for my family and cast Lay on Hands on myself, take back five hit points. I see Mythcarver on the ground. I'm going to grab it and use my movement to stand, and I also noticed that we're flanking Hotis, so I'm going to sneak-attack the motherfucker up the back.

MATT: All right. Just as a note, the way that the bonus attack works - well, this is with your haste ability.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm hasted. The bonus action was - Oh, no, the action, right. The action was the spell.

MATT: The haste would've faded once you went unconscious.

LIAM: Oh, okay. That's okay. I have one action still.

MATT: Well, you have an action, and then you have your offhand strike. Offhand strike works as part of the attack action. If you use your action for anything else, you don't get the bonus attack.

MARISHA: So is picking something up not a free action? I thought picking up a weapon was a free action.

MATT: It's part of an action. Don't worry about it. It's fine, let's do it.

LIAM: I didn't even - no no no, do it the real way, man. I don't want any mulligans.

MATT: No, the idea would be, you don't get a free bonus attack with any other action. It's whatever you're attacking, you then get to throw this in this way.

LIAM: Well, let me ask you this because if I understood that I wouldn't have cast the spell, so I'm happy to skip the spell and then cut the -

MATT: Okay, that's fine. We'll do that. As part of the action economy, the idea is that because you're attacking with one, you can give yourself an opening to get a quick strike with the other.

LIAM: So it has to go with another attack. Now I understand. So if I had understood - thank you, thank you. I'll take that mulligan for understanding. So now I'm going to stab him with Mythcarver through the back. Flanked.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: And flanked is at advantage, yeah?

MATT: No.

LIAM: An ally nearby, was it not?

MATT: Technically, he's not flanked because the other ally is prone and is not currently threatening his face -

LIAM: All right, that misses, then.

MARISHA: Fucking fuck.

LIAM: So I've used an action but not the bonus action, so I'm going to disengage.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I'm going to dart back, as far away from him as I can get.

ASHLEY, LAURA, AND TALIESIN: (silly voices) D&D!

LIAM: 12 speed - the boots are off. Six, got it. Yeah, got it.

MATT: All right, there you go. That brings us to… At this point, waiting around this way. As you guys are all distracted at this point, turns around, takes a dagger.

MARISHA: Who?

LAURA: There's another guy?

MARISHA: Where did he come from?

TALIESIN: That's the one that ran that way. He's mine.

MARISHA: That yours? The little shit.

LIAM: By the way, the Whitestone guards are shit.

MARISHA: Yeah, no shit.

LAURA: This is all happening so fast!

LIAM: Don't they stand on the wall? Don't they stand on places?

SAM: It's movie night. They're all watching The Sound of Music in the rec room.

TRAVIS: Vasselheim, yeah, they're on the lax.

LIAM: Whitestone, Whitestone.

TRAVIS: I mean Whitestone.

MATT: This is all, like, 3 a.m. at Whitestone Castle right now. That being the case, the guard makes two dagger attacks. One at you, Percy, and one at you, Pike. That's natural 20 against you, Percy.

TALIESIN: Natural 20 against me?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it. Where's my goddamn - ah, shit.

SAM: What do you need? What? What's wrong?

MATT: No, it's okay. He rolled a one. So you take six points of piercing damage.

TALIESIN: I was going to try and grab it. I'm just trying to find my - my dagger seems to have vanished. Yeah, I can't find my dagger for some reason. My gloves.

MATT: That would be 18 against you, Pike? That does hit you.

ASHLEY: Does hit.

MATT: You take four points of piercing damage.

ASHLEY: Okay okay okay okay okay.

TRAVIS: Okay okay okay.

TALIESIN: I think the snare glove is 1d8.

MATT: 1d10, actually.

TALIESIN: 1d10. That's even better.

MATT: Because he hit you first -

ASHLEY: I'm still alive.

MATT: - it's sneak attack on top of that. He was hidden. So that was six, plus… 34 points of piercing damage, all together.

TALIESIN: Dropped to 23.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah. so. That's right.

MARISHA: Yeah, don't do that.

TALIESIN: No, I'm not thinking. There we go.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: That finishes their turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Me?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Okay, the wall just opened up, so I'm going to shout for Trinket to run after the assassin throwing the knives.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And I'm going to run out the doorway. If I go up on my broom, will I be able to see them down in the courtyard?

MATT: From this perspective? No.

LAURA: I mean, if I run out the door - right, right.

MATT: If you run out the door… is this all on the broom?

LAURA: Well, if I'm in the air, can I see down at…

MATT: You'd be able to from -

MARISHA: Jazz hands?

TALIESIN: (singing) You'll be swell.

TALIESIN, ASHLEY, AND LAURA: (singing) You'll be great.

TRAVIS: (singing) You've got the world on…

TRAVIS AND ASHLEY: (singing) a plate.

MATT: Yeah, so from up there as you (shhh) shoot out above, looking down, you can see where they lie on the battlefield there.

LAURA: I want to shoot the rakshasa!

(all laugh)

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Yes! I'm going to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: You were born for this stuff.

ASHLEY: I want to shoot the rakshasa!

LAURA: Okay. I make an attack roll for three arrows. Okay, that's a good one. That is 31.

MATT: 31? Hits.

LAURA: Yes. As the first hit. 19 is the second?

MATT: That does hit.

TRAVIS: Nice.

LAURA: And 22 is the third.

MATT: Okay. Just as a note, what's your alignment?

LAURA: No, I'm neutral. Chaotic neutral.

MATT: Okay, cool, just checking. All right, so go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Why?!

ASHLEY: What does that mean?

LIAM: I know what it means.

SAM: I don't know what it means.

TRAVIS: You do know what it means?

LIAM: I do.

LAURA: Does that mean I do not as good damage to him or something?

LIAM: Sort of.

LAURA: God darn it. Okay, wait.

TRAVIS: That fucking smirk.

LIAM: Sort of.

LAURA: Hold on. I'm just going to roll the first attack, because I'm stupid. Great. 12 for the first because I forgot to Hunter's Mark him because I'm a genius because I'm just so worked up because my brother's in trouble.

TRAVIS: As per uzh.

LAURA: Gosh darn it.

LIAM: This shit ain't my fault.

MATT: As a note, your rage would have faded because you had gotten no damage, but you also could have used your bonus action last turn for your rage.

TRAVIS: Which I totally whispered, but just not loud enough.

MATT: That's what I figured.

SAM: We're on point today.

TRAVIS: You are omnipotent, my man.

LAURA: Nine for the second attack.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Oh, I haven't been adding for the bracers. Add four extra to what I told you.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: 18 for the last.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: No, 20 for the last. I'm sorry, Matt. I'm freaking out.

LIAM: So cruel, so cruel, so cruel.

MATT: You rush up in the air, and these were with disadvantage on all the attack rolls because you're on your broom?

TALIESIN: I swear I'll finish it eventually. I swear, I swear.

MATT: Roll three more dice and we'll see if I negate any of these. First one is?

LIAM: (laughs) One.

MATT: First attack, nope, and I need you to roll a dexterity check.

LAURA: Natural 20.

SAM: Whoa!

MATT: Okay, so you stay on the broom, you don't fall off.

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: She's surfing on the broom.

LIAM: No pressure.

MATT: Roll -

LAURA: The second one I already rolled. It's a 25 for the second.

MATT: Okay. Roll again for the third one.

LAURA: (fake-cries) What is that? 20.

ASHLEY: 21.

LAURA: 21 for the last.

MATT: Okay, so the last two still hit.

LAURA: Okay, do I have to roll… oh no, do I have to roll again for -

TRAVIS: No, you stayed on.

MATT: No, you stayed on. You're fine. Essentially, as you rushed up, you saw him, you took aim, but you almost fell off the side. The first arrow goes far. The other two that split off do manage to make their hit, but the first one does streak off into the sky. You right yourself back up on the broom, but that's the end of your turn.

LAURA: Wait, I get another attack.

MATT: You do, because that was the first one.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll.

LAURA: My second one - can I use my bonus action? Sorry.

MATT: No.

LAURA: Not in between my two attacks?

MATT: What are you going to use it for?

LAURA: Hunter's Mark!

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: It's really just a stink-eye.

ASHLEY: I want to shoot the rakshasa!

MATT: You watch as your mark… has no effect.

TRAVIS: It has no effect?

LAURA: Oh, that's right. He's a rakshasa. He's an asshole.

TRAVIS: Why does it have no effect? Tigers resist Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: I don't know why.

MATT: You've never actually fought one before, Laura.

LAURA: No, I don't know why, but -

ASHLEY: Tiger's resistance?

LAURA: - he didn't seem to be affected.

ASHLEY: Tiger bomb?

TALIESIN: It's the eye of the tiger.

MARISHA: Tiger bomb.

MATT: You try and focus your intent on attacking him and yet it doesn't seem to find its form.

LAURA: 19 for the last, with disadvantage.

MATT: That does hit. Roll the last attack.

LAURA: Okay. Okay okay okay.

LIAM: Okay okay okay.

MATT: Pike, you're up next.

LAURA: Oh, no, I don't get any additional -

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: - so that's just 14.

TRAVIS: Why don't you get any additional?

LAURA: Because I don't get any storm damage.

MATT: So you pull -

LAURA: Oh, but -

MATT: B-b-b!

LAURA: No, I didn't say that was true. I didn't say that was through the flaming bowstring, did I? Because I was so distracted by the Hunter's Mark.

MATT: All right. That finishes your turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.

MATT: Go for it.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: What level?

ASHLEY: Five.

SAM: Yeah!

MATT: (laughs) 5th. Go for it. So 5d8.

ASHLEY AND TRAVIS: (count quietly)

SAM: 5d8?

MATT: Yeah, 5d8 plus five.

TRAVIS: 21.

ASHLEY: That's the last one?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay, 21 points.

MATT: You heal yourself 21 points.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: What else you doing now?

MATT: You see Trinket run around the corner and is now currently in the face of the assassin that just threw a blade at you. And the rest of the party's running through this hole.

ASHLEY: How close can I get to the hole?

MATT: You can get about there.

ASHLEY: Okay. So I'm going to go to there.

MATT: Okay, so you run around to that area there.

ASHLEY: And then I'm going to create a Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Can I send it down to the rakshasa?

MATT: You don't know where the rakshasa is.

ASHLEY: I don't know where the rakshasa is.

MATT: You have no idea, no visual cue. You just see a hole in the stone wall that everyone's rushing through and that's the most that you know.

ASHLEY: Okay, so you know what? Can I nix that?

MATT: Yep, you can do that.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Shield of Faith on myself.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: So that will bring me up to - because I'm 13 right now with the shield?

MATT: Yes, that'll bring you to 15. So you have that on your concentration. Good call. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Can I see that jerk who just threw the knife at me?

MATT: No, he ducked around the corner and Trinket gave chase.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to roll towards that corner as well.

MATT: This corner?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going that way.

MATT: Come around the corner that way and you see Trinket harrying the guy.

LIAM: Run, Steve Martin, run.

TALIESIN: (laughs) I'm taking some shots at him.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Sharpshooter.

LAURA: Trinket instinctually ducks.

TALIESIN: I will not hit Trinket. 24?

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that'll do it. 25 points of damage.

MATT: Hoo.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: (gunshot) Giant blast as one of his shoulders is blown back. You see a spatter of blood across the stairs behind him and he almost stumbles back into the stairs. Trinket's using this position to move even closer and snarl. He's feeling closed off.

TALIESIN: Taking another shot.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Sharpshooter. That's 19?

MATT: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Hee! 24.

ASHLEY: Dang.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: Another shot.

LIAM: Consistent.

MATT: (tssh) This one actually hits him right above the pectoral muscle and blows him back, now almost leaning against the stairs, these two big wounds right in the middle of his chest.

SAM: I think you'll probably have mercy on him, right?

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, I'm actually going to hire him. He's been great.

MARISHA: Could be an intern.

TALIESIN: (laughs) I can't count when you do that. 24.

MATT: 24?

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: All right, that hits.

TALIESIN: Come on. 18.

SAM: Jesus.

MARISHA: Kill him. Kill him.

TALIESIN: Six plus 10. But I get a minus five to my attack.

MATT: Yeah, with this one, as you pull back, final shot, you fire and it (fwoomp), right through the forehead. Eyes roll back as Trinket lunges and tears the throat out.

TALIESIN: I keep running by them right up the hill.

LAURA: Midnight snack!

LIAM: Take it, DiCaprio!

MATT: That's as far as you make it, full movement.

LAURA: He does the paw thing.

ASHLEY: Wait, are all the assassins gone now?

MATT: You only saw two.

ASHLEY: And you just killed one.

TALIESIN: Mine's dead and yours is dead.

ASHLEY: Or two. Okay.

TALIESIN: We don't know about any others.

TRAVIS: He smoked both of them, yeah.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Percy.

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Trinket's the best at killing dead guys.

LAURA: He is so good at it.

MATT: Everyone rushes in, the rakshasa glares around.

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: Oh, this motherfucker.

ASHLEY: Don't you leave!

LIAM: He's going for spells!

TRAVIS: We're still on the roof. It's just Scanlan and Vax down there. He's not intimidated yet.

LAURA: I shot him, though.

TRAVIS: He doesn't see us.

MARISHA: I hope he's got a Counterspell…

TRAVIS: He doesn't know where it's coming. Right? (high-pitched) Right?

TALIESIN: (singing) Sam has got a Counterspell.

LAURA: What are you - what's happening?

MARISHA: (singing) When you're a Jet, you're a Jet all the way.

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: I don't know.

LIAM: Rakshasa.

SAM: He's doing math.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: It's a Beautiful Mind moment right now.

LIAM: He does want to join Vox Monica.

TALIESIN: This is what it's like on this end, going, “what the fuck do I do?" Thank you.

MARISHA: You know, there's a mathematical equation for your stripes?

LIAM: Well, he reads thoughts but he gets them backwards, sometimes.

SAM: He's thinking about that great Loot Crate deal.

LIAM: Vox Merkernerkerk.

LAURA: Verks Merkernerk.

ASHLEY: Vox Monica.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

ASHLEY: Vox Phoebe.

TRAVIS: He's really thinking about this.

ASHLEY: Vox Ross. Vox Chandler.

SAM: How many people will die instantly - if I set off a thermonuclear bomb in my pocket?

MATT: All right. So.

LAURA: Vox Joey.

TRAVIS: Joey.

MATT: So. Hotis, first, is going to… reach back and pull out - no actually, no. Hotis is going to look up at the creature that just flew in on the broom.

ASHLEY: Look away.

MATT: Looks at you and says, "You'll do.” Right as the eye contact hits you -

MARISHA: Oh my god. He's going to fucking Finger of Death.

MATT: - you feel a presence begin to push into your head. I need you to roll a wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: At advantage, being a half-elf.

LAURA: Is it a charm?

MARISHA: Yeah, he's trying to charm.

LAURA: Okay okay okay!

LIAM: Okay okay okay.

LAURA: Sheesh! Okay.

LIAM: Ah, we're good.

LAURA: And what is it, wisdom?

MATT: Wisdom.

LAURA: 18 plus three is 21?

MATT: 21, all right. You resist the effect.

TRAVIS: What was he doing? What was the effect?

MARISHA: Trying to charm you, man.

LIAM: It was what he did to me the last time we faced him.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Only half of us know how this fucker works.

LIAM: Now he does nothing at all.

LAURA: I don't know what he is.

MARISHA: Wait…

TALIESIN: I wasn't there.

MARISHA: It was just - was it just me and you?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh my god, it was just me and you.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we've never, we have no…

LIAM: (sings) We've only just met.

ASHLEY: (sings) We've only just begun.

MATT: Yeah, he's going to get quite a way aways from you guys.

ASHLEY: Where's he going?

MATT: I'd say because you're prone, you do get one attack of opportunity on him - no, you dropped the blade. The blade is not at your feet, so you can punch him if you want as he runs by.

SAM: Oh, if he runs away I can cast a spell on him.

MARISHA: Yeah. Warcaster.

MATT: From prone. I'll let it happen, sure.

MARISHA: You can cast when you're on your back.

MATT: Five feet of you. I'll let you do it. What do you want to do?

SAM: Well, it's not the rule, though, I don't want any preferential -

MATT: No, it's not against the rules. It's a weird in-between. You're on the ground after falling from the top.

SAM: Yeah, I'm hurt, so maybe it wouldn't work.

MATT: Yeah, but you see him running away and you can still cast from the ground, so go for it. What do you want to cast?

SAM: Okay. Well, what I was going to cast before he ran away was Bigby's Hand and try to grapple him.

MATT: Okay, so you create Bigby's Hand.

SAM: (singing) Bigby's Hand!

MATT: And what level is Bigby's Hand?

SAM: Five.

LAURA: Oh, no!

MATT: Bigby's Hand (whoosh) appears and rushes out, and the fingers pass through the rakshasa. It has no effect.

LAURA: I know, I know.

ASHLEY: No!

MATT: It twice more tries to reach out, And the rakshasa shrugs it off like it's nothing.

SAM: What? Bigby… But the hand is still there? He didn't Counterspell it.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: He's somehow immune to hand-based attacks. What if it were a foot? Would that have the same effect?

MATT: One could only conjecture.

SAM: Shit!

TALIESIN: It's just the number of fingers, man.

SAM: Well, then I flip him off with it, but the British way.

(all laugh)

MATT: Perfect. All right, that's going to end his turn.

MATT: Scanlan, you're up

LIAM: Rakshasa cannot be jerked.

SAM: All right, I'm up. Well, that didn't work. So I guess I'll drop that. And instead - Jesus, what else can he resist? Fucking shit. How far is he from me?

MATT: Currently? He's about… 40 feet from you?

SAM: Okay.

MATT: You can get up. You're still prone on the ground.

SAM: I'll use half of my movement to get up, and I will stare daggers at him and cast Eyebite against him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Yeah, I'll just do one of these and I'll sing at him. I'll sing, “(singing) I hate rakasha, so put another arrow in his body, baby!

(others join in singing):

"I hate rakasha, so come and take the time and fight with me!”

(all laugh)

MATT: As he looks back at you as you're singing out loud and chuckles to himself -

SAM: Fucking -

MATT: - as it has no effect.

LIAM: Ah! Haha.

SAM: Fuck! But it was a good song!

TRAVIS: It was!

MATT: It was a very good song.

LIAM: Petition to Chris Perkins to rename it “rakasha.”

MARISHA: Rakasha!

LAURA: (whispers) Rakasha!

SAM: But what, he's impervious to spells? How did that happen?

ASHLEY: What level was it?

SAM: That's a 6th-level spell!

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: You have two more squares, if you want.

SAM: I don't have a sword anymore. He picked it up, right?

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: Yep.

SAM: So, I guess I will…

LIAM: Hey, I'm in a lot of pain.

SAM: Oh, yeah. That guy.

(all laugh)

SAM: Okay. I'll, uh -

LIAM: Six big hit points.

SAM: I'll heal you again with a - I can only do a level one bonus action with a Healing Word, right?

MATT: Up to level two.

SAM: Oh, then I'll do a level two Healing Word.

MATT: So 2d4 plus five.

SAM: Ooh. 2d4 plus five and five? Or 2d4 plus five?

MATT: Just five.

SAM: Well, this is shitty. It's nine points again.

LIAM: I'll take it.

MATT: It's better than nothing.

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: Better than nothing. All righty. That ends Scanlan's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Can I see them at all from the roof?

MATT: Yeah. You've gotten up and you can see them all there. Whatever this creature is, is now in the distance, trying to run back.

TRAVIS: Sweet anus! Reason to jump! And I jump off the roof into the courtyard.

MATT: Okay, (landing thud) you leap and it's a very small step down (footstep)

TRAVIS: But I make it look like I landed really hard!

MARISHA: Three-point landing!

TRAVIS: Can I continue my movement in his direction as far as I can go? 50 feet.

MATT: 50. That's as far as you can get.

TRAVIS: Is he another 20 feet away?

MATT: About 20 feet from you, yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I take my… Can I attach the Blood Axe to my Chain of Returning and hurl it at the rakshasa?

MATT: I'll say yeah. You, being Grog, for the most part, you don't take your equipment too far from you because you've been in uncomfortable situations.

TRAVIS: Only in the house of lady favors do I let my beans hang out when I sleep.

MATT: Right. Fair enough. You would have the chain on you, still.

ASHLEY: Franks and beans!

LIAM: How do you get the beans above the franks?

MATT: You attach it, swish it, and throw the axe. Go ahead.

TRAVIS: Reckless attack.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Thank god. Not much better. 17.

MATT: 17. 17 does hit.

TRAVIS: Oh, yay!

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: Six! That's 26 with six points of necrotic damage.

MATT: Nice! (throwing sounds) The axe slams into the tiger creature's chest. “(growls, breathes heavily) I'll come back for all of you!” Do you want to pull the blade back?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: All right. It's on the ground next to him, it's not jammed into him -

TRAVIS: Oh, then yeah, I'll pull it back.

MATT: Yeah, it's not hard to pull back.

TRAVIS: Just (whoosh).

MATT: Go ahead and roll your athletics check.

TRAVIS: What is it?

MATT: You're raging, so you have advantage.

TRAVIS: Oh, thank you.

TRAVIS: Same number.

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: Athletics.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: You pull it back (vwoof) and it streaks past you (shhh), scatters across the ground in the other direction. You haven't quite picked it up yet; you're going to have to try again.

TRAVIS: Meant to do that.

MATT: Yep.

ASHLEY: It's 15.

SAM: Cool move.

TRAVIS: Oh, it's 15, sorry.

MATT: 15?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Then as you (shhh) pull it back - No, not this day, Blood Axe. You're mine.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. That finishes your turn, Grog. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: I am going to… move up, I guess. My full movement.

MATT: About there.

MARISHA: Okay, roughly how far away is he from me now? The rakshasa?

MATT: Eyeballing it right now, from best you can tell, he's about 60-70 feet from you.

MARISHA: All right. Okay. 60-70 feet. First things first, I'm going to cast Wall of Stone, and what I want to do is make it a semi-circle, and wall him in with us.

MATT: A semi-circle and wall you guys in?

MARISHA: Yeah, wall him in with us. I don't want us to lose sight on him, but I want to make it like a -

TALIESIN: A cup.

MARISHA: A cup. Yeah.

MATT: All righty. So like around there?

MARISHA: Yep. All the way…

MATT: How long can you make the wall?

MARISHA: How long can I make the wall? I can make the wall…

MATT: Vax, you're on deck by the way.

MARISHA: I can do 10 by… sorry. If it's three inches thick, I can do 10 foot by -

TALIESIN: 10 by 20?

MARISHA: 20-foot panels… It doesn't really specify right now. Is it supposed to be 10… Okay, right. Right. So I think that's about right.

MATT: I will pull this up.

MARISHA: I don't want it to be super thick.

TALIESIN: It's not a very descriptive -

MARISHA: It's not very descriptive.

MATT: Okay, six-inch thick, composed of 10 foot by 10 foot panels -

MARISHA: And when I do three inches thick, I can create 10 foot by 20 foot panels - it says the same damn thing in the book. You create a span of 20-foot length…

MATT: We'll say that that's fine. You do a three-inch wall there, 10 feet high?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: And now I'm going to do a bonus action - see if this works. Okay, I have a 60-foot range here, so I want to cast a Grasping Vine -

MATT: Grasping Vine is a 4th-level spell. You can't do it as a bonus action the same turn you did another spell.

MARISHA: Fuck, that's right. Never mind. Then I'm going to take a bonus action and Healing Word Vax.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Eight points. How far away am I from Vax?

MATT: You're about 25-30 feet.

MARISHA: Okay, can I shout at him?

MATT: You may.

MARISHA: Vax! Is that Hotis?

LIAM: Yeah!

MARISHA: Uh, holy shit!

LIAM: That's what I said!

MARISHA: That's my turn.

MATT: And it's your turn, Vax.

LIAM: Okay, and the first thing I do is shout out, “Blades! I think blades are the best way to go here, folks!” And I'm going to run at him.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: I think I should get there with 12, no?

LAURA: No boots.

LIAM: Oh! No boots!

LIAM: All right, I'll use - fuck a duck. I'll use the bonus action to dash.

MATT: Okay, dash. (swoosh) You'll get right there. Unless you want to hold back -

LIAM: And I'm going to try to grapple that fucking dick.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Mmm, that's good.

LIAM: 19.

LAURA: I'm going to grapple that dick so good.

ASHLEY: I'm going to grapple that dick!

TALIESIN: I'm going to grapple that dick.

SAM: Grapple that dick.

MATT: He is grappled.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: Grapple him, yeah!

(all laugh)

LIAM: And before my turn ends, I'm going to pull him in and say, “Fool me once, motherfucker.” And whoever steps in steps in.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. This assassin is done - no turns for them. He is being slowly torn apart by Trinket against the stairs. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to… jeez, Louise. I'm going to… fly down and land on the ground as my move.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And I'm going to shoot him with my Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: (singing) Blazing Bowstring!

LAURA: 22!

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: All right. (mumbling) …13…

LIAM: (sighs) Girl…

LAURA: (mumbling) …plus eight…

ASHLEY: Nice.

LAURA: Is 21! On the first attack.

MATT: 21 damage. All righty.

LAURA: And I get to use the Blazing Bowstring again because I get it twice.

MATT: You do. Roll for the next attack.

LAURA: That is a 26.

MATT: That hits, yeah.

LAURA: 15 on the second.

ASHLEY: Bracers?

MATT: All righty…

LAURA: Ah! Shit, add four to that. I'm sorry. I'm an asshole.

MATT: No, it's all good.

TRAVIS: You said it.

MATT: All righty, so (whoosh whoosh) both arrows slam (sound of flame catching) burst of flame - “(growls)” He's now starting to look even more rough and ragged. The fire's curling up the side of the robe.

LAURA: And I yell, “What's a hotis?!”

MATT: All right. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. I would like to get to the window and jump out.

MATT: The hole in the wall you mean?

ASHLEY: The hole in the wall. I have my Celestial Shield. I'm going to cast Featherfall on myself.

MATT: Okay, this actually is a climb up. This isn't a window. This is an opening in the wall that Keyleth made with Stone Shape.

MARISHA: I made a ramp with the rubble.

MATT: You're actually stepping up.

ASHLEY: She made a ramp, so we don't need to do it.

MATT: So you get up, and the farthest you can get this turn, unless you want to go full movement - you'll not be able to make it all the way up the ramp and still do something, so…

ASHLEY: Can I use my Sprinter's Boots?

MATT: You can, actually. Yes, you can.

ASHLEY: I'm still up on the ramp. Can I still be hidden, then? I'll stay right there.

MATT: Okay, so you come out onto the roof and you jump down about five feet, and you're on the roof, now, the moonlight coming down, a somewhat clouded, spotted sky. In the distance, you see everyone rushing towards some sort of entity that's walled in by a stone wall. He's currently up in the face of Vax. You still have your action right now.

ASHLEY: Okay. Do I have a clear shot to use - where did it go? Flame Strike at 7th level.

MATT: You do, actually. You do. On 7th level?

ASHLEY: Da.

SAM: Our music, it's gone.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: Oh, it's coming, don't worry.

LIAM: (singing “Whistle Stop”)

(all join in on different parts)

SAM: That's also Bluegrass, folks.

MATT: And with that, we're putting box music up.

(all chuckle)

MATT: Or we should be.

LAURA: Oh no!

TALIESIN: (radio announcer voice) That's called “The Rakshasa Blues.” Coming up next -

LIAM: (starts singing Mortal Kombat theme)

MATT: We've got a boombox right here -

LAURA, MARISHA, AND ASHLEY: Mortal Kombat!

TRAVIS: Doo-doo-doo. Fight!

MATT: I don't know why - input's functional, but we'll just make up the music as we go. So, at a 7th-level Flame Strike. That'll be putting… 10d6 damage. Going to attempt a saving throw. That's a natural one, but does have advantage on saving throws against spells.

LAURA: I can hear music, it's just really quiet!

MARISHA: Yeah, I can hear it.

LIAM: I liked ours better.

MARISHA: Oh, there we go! Oh, you were doing something to it.

SAM: This is exciting.

MATT: It's coming, isn't it?

MARISHA: It's coming.

LIAM: (record scratching noise)

MATT: What's the DC of your spell? That'll be an 18.

MATT: Spell DC?

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: Yeah, it does save, so it takes half damage. Go ahead and roll 10d6.

LAURA: Damn.

LIAM: Damn.

ASHLEY: Okay, six, eight, nine.

MARISHA: Kill that motherfucker!

ASHLEY: 14.

LAURA: 18.

ASHLEY: 18.

TRAVIS: (whispers) 19.

ASHLEY: 19, 22 -

TRAVIS: But that's it -

ASHLEY: I roll 10.

TRAVIS: Oh!

LAURA: 22, 28, 29.

LIAM: It's like watching the Olympics.

ASHLEY: 29.

LIAM: 5-9, 5-8, 6-1.

LAURA: Ooh!

MARISHA: I don't even know what that means!

ASHLEY: Okay, so 45.

MATT: So, 45 halved is 22 points of fire and bludgeoning damage.

MARISHA: What did you cast?

MATT: So how do you want to do this?

ASHLEY: (gasps) Wha -

LAURA AND TRAVIS: Oh!

TRAVIS: Shit!

LAURA: Oh my god!

ASHLEY: Are you serious? (gasps) What?

LAURA: Pikey-Pike killed a rakshasa!

MATT: How do you want to do this?

LIAM: Do it, girl.

ASHLEY: I'm so shocked! I don't know! Okay, okay. Oh, man. Can the Flame Strike go through his body and (explosion noise) burst him like a (foof)?

(all laugh)

MATT: Burst him like a foof. So, as you turn the corner, seeing all your friends charging toward this creature, knowing the fear that you heard in Vax's voice earlier, the burning rage of vengeance -

ASHLEY: I'm mad.

MATT: - burns beneath your skin -

SAM: Exposed skin.

MATT: - your mostly exposed skin.

ASHLEY: My non-hairy skin.

(all laugh)

MATT: You grab your holy symbol, drop the shield, and bring your arm up like this. As you do, the rakshasa before you all of a sudden goes like (grunts) -

LIAM: I'm going to let go of him now.

MATT: You see the skin cracking -

LIAM: Just back up a few.

MATT: - these breaks to his exterior, these strange, glowing, internal cracks on his body. “(hissing, raspy breaths) I will return!”

LIAM: Yeah, we'll see you next time, shitface.

MATT: (explosion sound) And he detonates with a column of fire that comes bursting out of the ground from the body. You can see the shattering, burned bits of rakshasa flesh go flying across the entire exterior of the castle as this column, 20, 30, 40 feet up, streaks up out of the top of the castle, lighting up the vicinity of Whitestone. And as it slowly subsides, there is nothing but a pile of ash left where Hotis was.

(cheers)

TRAVIS: That was sweet!

LAURA: What the fuck was that?

ASHLEY: Thanks, Grog!

SAM: So, I think I understand. You have to be naked to cast spells on it. Is that it?

ASHLEY: I think that's what it is!

LIAM: That's how we did it last time.

LAURA: What was that? What is this?

TALIESIN: I'm going to finish running up to the West Tower.

LAURA: Trinket is slowly realizing nobody's around him.

TALIESIN: He could have joined me.

ASHLEY: I hold my shield over my body.

LIAM: I think we might need to have a discussion with Vanessa at some point for not alerting us to the fact that this is a -

MARISHA: That those things come back.

LIAM: - an ongoing -

MARISHA: - problem.

LIAM: - contract.

TRAVIS: I run over and I give Pike a fancy robe.

MARISHA: We watched him die.

LAURA: Who, Hotis?

LIAM: I stuck a knife through his throat and slit the front of it.

TRAVIS: You killed him before?

ASHLEY: So he comes back?

MARISHA: Remember when we split up for the Slayer's Take? He was our contract.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: Right.

TRAVIS: Didn't finish him off, did you?

MARISHA: Nope, Vax and I watched him die.

TRAVIS: Like, die, or like he “ah” fell?

LAURA: And then you walked away.

LIAM: I slit his throat.

MARISHA: He slit his throat.

LIAM: And it exploded blood all over the ground underneath his big smile -

MARISHA: Yes, it got blood all over the place.

TRAVIS: That's pretty dead.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: So he's a vampire.

MARISHA: I think we need to talk to Vanessa, like he said.

TALIESIN: I am alerting the guards and I am yelling through the hallways to lock down the city.

MATT: Which, at this point, guards start coming up from below -

LAURA: Good job, guys! Totally on it.

TALIESIN: We don't know we got everybody - lock down, keep looking!

MARISHA: Yes, be that there are assassins running around, which was not part of the contract before.

LAURA: I fly up on the broom and try to spot anybody on the ground that looks dangerous.

TRAVIS: Can I look at Vax and ask him what he's wearing?

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: Oh, this is a -

SAM: A bloody robe.

LIAM: A beautiful, bloodied… It's a robe. It's a beautiful brown.

MARISHA: The beading on it is gorgeous.

LAURA: I thought it was silver.

ASHLEY: Can I check the robe?

LIAM: No, no look at it - it's brown. It's brown, it's earthy.

LAURA: Matt said it was silver the last game.

LIAM: Yeah, but look at it. Can't you see with your eyes? It's brown.

MATT: Well, portions of it are brown now, due to the blood that has seeped into it from the various stab wounds that he's suffered.

LIAM: I don't really want to wear this. I'm a little confused right now. I think I need to -

SAM: What happened?

TRAVIS: Yeah, how did that happen?

ASHLEY: Can I take a look at the robe?

MATT: As you attempt to take the robe off, you feel like the strength is sapped from your body and you're like (raspy groan). And the more you try to pull it off, the more and more you start to feel like it's pulling the breath out of your lungs.

ASHLEY: Can I try to rip it off of him?

LIAM: Ah, wait wait wait wait wait - let's figure out what's going on!

LAURA: Do I see anything? Can I land?

MATT: Yeah, make a perception check -

LIAM: Wait, stop, everyone stop. (breathes heavily) That thing came to me disguised as Gilmore. He told me he wanted to talk, we went for a walk, he gave me this - Full disclosure, we all know he's fucking sweet on me. We went for a stroll and then he turned into whatever he is and then he fucking stabbed me in the gut.

ASHLEY: Wait, but -

MATT: You see guards scattered around the castle.

ASHLEY: Gilmore gave you the robe?

LIAM: No, he was disguised as Gilmore.

MARISHA: The rakshasa can disguise -

LIAM: He's a skinchanger.

MARISHA: He can shape-shift - and he can teleport, and he can do all sorts of shifty things.

LIAM: Which means we need to find Gilmore and we need to find Allura now.

TALIESIN: Everyone get -

MARISHA: Hang on, hang on! I go up to Vax and I cast Dispel Magic as I try and pull off the robe.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Ahh. Ahh? It stings? I think.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a d20 and add six for your wisdom.

MARISHA: Add six to my wisdom?

MATT: Add six to the roll from your wisdom.

MARISHA: Oh, add six to the roll from my wisdom. Oh, adding my modifier, right. 14.

MATT: 14. As you cast Dispel Magic and start pulling the robe back, you feel like someone's pulling the skin off your body.

SAM: Oh, god.

LIAM: Fuck me!

MATT: You suffer 12 points of damage as it feels like someone's peeling the flesh off your body.

SAM AND MARISHA: Wait, does it come off?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: I've got a plan.

MARISHA: It doesn't come off.

TRAVIS: I pull it off.

TALIESIN: No no no no no! No. I'm grabbing Vex. Vax, Vex, with me. Everyone start searching. Tell them that we're going to need a healer downstairs. And I'm going to take him. We're going to head towards -

LAURA: Wait, did you say me or him?

TALIESIN: I'm taking both of you because I'm not carrying him alone, because he's heavy.

LAURA: He's actually quite light.

LIAM: I'm lighter than my sister.

TALIESIN: I have a strength of 12. There's not a lot I can do.

LAURA: Ow, no, I'm serious. Don't! I'm really not strong.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and drag him down towards the pit with the orb of death.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a good idea.

TRAVIS: Are there any pieces of the rakshasa left?

MATT: Burned, tiny chunks and ash. It was a full - it was - We're talking end-of-Matrix-style Agent Smith scattering.

LIAM: Scanlan!

SAM: What?

LIAM: Will you grab that dagger off the ground for me?

SAM: What dagger? You had a -

LIAM: His dagger, the dagger - no, I've got your sword. And I toss it as we get dragged off. The dagger. Get the dagger for me!

SAM: I'll grab the dagger. I'm coming with.

LIAM: I like them.

MARISHA: I go and I look for Allura and Gilmore.

TALIESIN: Yes, let them know what's going on.

MARISHA: While they do that.

MATT: Okay. So you take Vax and Vex down towards the ziggurat.

LAURA: Come on.

LIAM: (groans)

TALIESIN: Just make sure if you start to feel strange as we go down there, let us know. And we slowly inch towards the effects of it.

LIAM: This is why I didn't even bother to take it off.

LAURA: You know what? At least it doesn't smell as bad as your feathers.

TALIESIN: That's so true.

ASHLEY: I'd like to follow.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Life's not that bad. Life's not that bad.

TALIESIN: Yes, but your smell is.

TRAVIS: I'll go, too, just as security.

SAM: I'm with.

MATT: You're with them?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: All right, so you guys all make your way down. As you're going through the castle, it's in utter chaos now. All the guards who, in what was about 20 to 30 seconds of action since the moment of actual shouting at the top of the tower, the reaction time would be great if it wasn't such a short window they had to get up there and you guys were right in the thick of it, and more trained than these soldiers.

MARISHA: As I'm looking for Gilmore and Allura, I'm alerting the guards of the visuals of the assailants.

MATT: Okay. And the guards begin to continue pushing around. You can see now, lights are starting to come on in the town. You guys make your way down into the subterranean tunnels under Whitestone, where the Ziggurat is. You can see it, once again, the large, pyramid-like structure.

TALIESIN: I cast - no, no, never mind. I'll hold off. Keep walking.

MATT: Okay. You make your way into the central chamber. It has a number of fire-based braziers that are set in there now for light that are just general fire, but a lot of them are burned down to embers. It's very, very low light in this area. You can barely see anything in here. You guys make your way inside the room. It's cold, it's dank, it's not a very comfortable atmosphere.

TALIESIN: Okay. Very gently.

LIAM: I'll do it! I'll do it.

TALIESIN: If this doesn't work, we can try something else.

TRAVIS: What are you doing?

LAURA: I've got it.

SAM: Hold on, we're close enough that magic has no effect, yeah?

LAURA: Potentially.

LIAM: Potentially.

SAM: I'll cast Mage Hand to slap Percy in the face.

MATT: No effect.

SAM: No effect. Okay, we're good.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to just peel it, slowly. I'm not going to rip it off like these assholes.

MATT: Okay. It pulls back with no issue.

LAURA: Hey! Get that shit off.

SAM: Throw it in the orb!

TALIESIN: Don't throw it in the orb!

LAURA: Somebody give him something to put on. Grog, do you have any more fancy robes?

TRAVIS: Nope, all out.

TALIESIN: Put it on the ground. We'll deal with it. We're not leaving it here.

LAURA: Well, just cover up your bits with it, maybe.

LIAM: We look almost exactly the same -

LAURA: I don't have any dangly bits, I'm sorry to tell you.

LIAM: Minus that one thing, we are so close.

TALIESIN: Three things. Three things.

MARISHA: Three things. There's a few.

LAURA: A couple other things.

LIAM: Yeah, but still.

TRAVIS: I do have one other fancy robe.

LAURA: Give him a fancy robe, Grog.

TRAVIS: Mmm.

LAURA: Grog!

TRAVIS: Yes?

LAURA: For my sake?

TRAVIS: All right. Last fancy robe to Vax.

SAM: Will the Bag of Holding work down here?

TALIESIN: No.

LIAM: Shush, you fucker.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MATT: You reach into the Bag of Holding, and it's just an empty satchel.

TALIESIN: Yeah, there's no Bag of Holding in here. So why don't we go upstairs now that it's off and we'll leave it here, and I'll be the last to leave with it.

LAURA: Wait. Why are you keeping it, Percy?

TALIESIN: Because I'm not sure destroying it in here is the best idea, and I'm not sure if destroying it is going to damage him. So we're going to be careful.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Aren't there acid pools down here?

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: It's not a terrible idea, but we should -

TRAVIS: Yeah, there are.

LAURA: Oh. That's right, that's where your gun went.

LIAM: But not near here, not here.

TALIESIN: Let's just very gently - we don't know what that is yet, so let's very gently get you out of the orb's influence, and then we'll remove it out of the orb's influence, and we'll see if there's a problem.

LIAM: I walk proudly and naked out of the fucking ziggurat.

TRAVIS: That's what I was going to ask.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I pick up the cloak and move it outside the orb's influence to see if it has any effect.

MATT: Okay. As you pull it beyond the perimeter of what you've come to mark, and it is marked, by the way. Through the research of Allura and the folks that have been here for a while, there is a specific mark in the hallway where that barrier begins.

TALIESIN: I just gingerly start to put it forward, watching him.

MATT: No noticeable effect.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: Nothing?

TALIESIN: Seems all right. I'm going to slowly walk away from the - slowly bring it out of the influence of the sphere.

MATT: No effect.

LAURA: Does that mean we should take it back in and chop it up so nobody ever puts it on?

TALIESIN: I think we should have someone look at it first.

SAM: No, we can use it as a weapon.

TALIESIN: Or we could destroy it properly. One or the other.

TRAVIS: Probably a good idea. Should I check the Bag of Holding now?

LAURA: Yeah, look in it.

TRAVIS: Can I reach in for a fancy robe?

MATT: Yeah, you pull out a fancy robe.

TRAVIS: Awesome. I wind it up like a towel and I smack Vax on the ass super hard.

LIAM: What's - fucking hell. And I don't even roll for it.

(screams)

TRAVIS: Bare ass. Bare ass I get it really good, like (whack)!

LIAM: Grog. Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: Brother, I am so happy to be alive.

TRAVIS: Yeah, me, too. Here you go. (whssht)

LIAM: Whoo. Wait, is this the one? Ugh.

LAURA: No, no, it's a fancy robe. It's just a regular robe.

LIAM: Are you sure?

LAURA AND ASHLEY: Yes.

TRAVIS: Yeah, put it on, fucker.

MATT: (laughs) The fear of robes has now set in.

MARISHA: (laughs) In robes?

TALIESIN: I am carrying the robe on Bad News like a stank rag, at this point, through the hallway.

MATT: Okay. While this is happening, you make your way down. Allura and Gilmore weren't staying in the castle. They were staying on the north side of the town.

MARISHA: As I walk towards them, I want to throw up a Skywrite, once again. The de Rolo crest, just alerting people.

MATT: Okay. And you do see, there are lights coming on in the town and guards are now going out through the streets, going through buildings, searching for individuals that match the description you're at. As you make your way towards Gilmore's home, you hear what sounds like a loud, heavy thud. (boof) (boof boof) Another one, and suddenly a crash of glass.

LAURA: I take off run - oh, she's by herself.

MATT: She's there by herself.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to cast Polymorph on myself.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I'm going to go as a mouse.

MATT: Wild Shape or Polymorph?

MARISHA: Polymorph.

MATT: Okay. (fft) You turn into a tiny little mouse.

MARISHA: Can I fit through the door?

MATT: Yep. You (fft) skirt under the door. The first thing you notice now is there is a bookcase that is shattered and there is a figure slumped in the corner where the table is broken. There's a little bit of light from a lantern that's been knocked over that's starting to catch fire on the curtains, and as the light (whoosh) from the flames begin to pick up, you can see the figure that was off to the side suddenly lifts up in the air. And you now see there, held aloft, what looks to be a humanoid, wearing dark leathers, a cloak, and a hood (groans) being held about four feet in the air, tense up. Walking out of the next room, you see Gilmore in disarray, a little bit of blood streaking down the forehead there, sweaty in the face, with his arm out.

SAM: Ooh.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: “What did you say? That's what I thought!” And he closes his hand and you watch as the figure is just - (squelching noise)

ALL: (shocked and impressed exclamations)

MATT: - squashed in this ball of flesh, and you can see as it slowly twists, it's like squeezing water out of a towel, just blood pours out.

ALL: (noises of disgust)

TRAVIS: (gleeful laughter) Yes!

MATT: And then he releases his fingers, and the figure (thud) falls limp on the ground like a crushed doll. “(sighs)”

MARISHA: I drop Polymorph.

MATT: “(startled shout)”

MARISHA: It's okay! It's okay! It's me, Keyleth. Sorry.

MATT: “It's not the night to be doing that to me!”

MARISHA: (shouting) I know, I know!

(all laugh)

MATT: “(sighs) I need a drink.”

MARISHA: Gilmore. Rakshasa. In the town. Pretending to be you. Trying to kill Vax.

MATT: “Right now?”

MARISHA: Yes! Also, a bunch of fucking assassins.

MATT: He grabs you by the arm -

MARISHA: (scared) Yeah.

MATT: - and just (shfff). There's a rush of air and a sparkle of purplish-blue energy. As you guys are walking through the tunnel, all of a sudden (boof), with a flash of light, you see, standing before you in the tunnel, Keyleth and a very harried Gilmore, who is -

MARISHA: (breathless) I found Gilmore.

MATT: “(pants)”

LAURA: I pull out my weapons.

TRAVIS: Are we killing this one?

MARISHA: No! This is real Gilmore! Real Gilmore.

MATT: “Hi. (chuckles) I'm glad to see you're all right.”

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: (cracks up)

MATT: “Wasn't expecting it to be my birthday, as well. (chuckles)”

LIAM: Oh, I'm still here? Oh, I'm still here!

SAM: Vax, Vax, quick!

LAURA: (singing) And naked!

LIAM: Let's look at the backside instead. This is a little awkward.

SAM: Vax, ask him a question that only Gilmore would know the answer to.

LIAM: Oh, sh - What did I tell you in that tavern the other night? A couple of months ago, I guess. What did I tell you?

LAURA: (laughs) Do you remember?

LIAM: Yeah, I do.

MATT: And you can see now, he's breathing heavy. He's been a little winded. And his eyes are excited to see - excited to see you for multiple reasons, but excited to see that you're alive. But as you ask him this question, you see his demeanor darkens a little. “That you… had interests elsewhere.”

LIAM: Yeah, that's Gilmore.

MARISHA: As he says this, I do a little cantrip Fog Cloud around Vax's… privies. Just a little floating fog cloud.

LIAM: Oh, not in my hair.

LAURA: A little floating cloud of -

MARISHA: Right around your waistline.

ASHLEY: A little tutu.

MARISHA: The old tutu.

LAURA: A little smoky tutu?

MARISHA: A little censor bar.

TRAVIS: Should I throw him the robe?

TALIESIN: Anime bathhouses.

TRAVIS: I thought I threw him the robe.

LAURA: He let it go. He wanted to walk naked.

LIAM: It's been a shit night. Who wants to get a drink?

MARISHA: Well, wait.

MATT: “I, for one, could really go for some heavy alcohol.”

MARISHA: Gilmore. Where's Allura? Where's Allura?

MATT: “I don't know.”

MARISHA: Gilmore, if they were after us and they were after you, they were probably also after Allura. We need to make sure that everyone on the Council is okay.

LAURA: Zahra. Kashaw.

MARISHA: All of them.

MATT: “Then let us go search. And then we shall drink. Nevertheless.” And Gilmore steps into the fog cloud -

(all laugh)

MATT: - and puts his arms around your neck and pulls you in, deep into his shoulder, and as he holds you really close, he whispers, “I'm glad you're all right.”

LIAM: (quietly) I don't say anything.

MATT: He lets you go.

LIAM: I pick the dialogue choice in the Telltale Game, where I say -

LAURA: You say “dot dot dot”?

ASHLEY: Ellipses.

MARISHA: Say nothing?

SAM: Dot dot dot?

MATT: He pulls back with a smile and kind of reads you.

TRAVIS: Gilmore will remember that.

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: He gives a nod of understanding and takes a step back. "I'm sorry.”

LIAM: Oh, no no no.

MATT: “Let's go make sure that everyone else is all right. Come! Follow me.” He turns around and goes into a jovial jog. You guys make your way up back up to the castle. Kashaw and Zahra are both fine. You come to them and find that their rooms were not disturbed, as neither of them were in the - actually, no, Kashaw was.

SAM: Where was Kashaw?

LAURA: He fought the rakshasa to begin with.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah, no. You do come to the point where there are now a bunch of guards swarmed around the outside of Kashaw's room. As you push past, there is blood everywhere. Everywhere. On the walls, the ceiling, the floor, across the bed.

TRAVIS: Awesome.

MATT: And you see, sitting on the edge of the bed, spear in hand, shield tossed to the side, also covered in bits of viscera, Kashaw, who's currently leaning against the edge.

LIAM: What's up, Stink-Eye?

MATT: “They knew better, right? What else was going to happen?”

TRAVIS: How many were there?

MATT: “Oh, just one.”

TRAVIS: Whoa.

ALL: (impressed laughter)

TRAVIS: Cool. Cool. Respect.

LAURA: We're grabbing a drink, Kashaw.

MATT: “I'll take a shower first. But then a drink.”

MARISHA: I grab him real fast and say, “It was Hotis, the rakshasa. Remember? From the Slayer's Take.”

MATT: “I always hated cats.”

ASHLEY: I put out my hand and say, “I've heard a lot about you. It's nice to meet you.”

MATT: “Oh. Nice to meet you, too.”

ASHLEY: I have a robe! I have on a robe!

TRAVIS: “I have on a robe, I have on a robe!”

ASHLEY: I'm dressed! I'm dressed!

MATT: We'll say he closes the front a little bit.

LIAM: It's probably way too large for you.

ASHLEY: A deep V?

MATT: Right, right.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: “It's nice to meet you, too. I… don't normally dress like this, either, so don't worry.”

ASHLEY: I'm dressed like this all the time.

MATT: “Huh. I like you.” And he walks out. “I'll meet you guys in a minute.” And he goes off to clean himself up. Zahra's fine. There's been no attack on Zahra.

LAURA: Cassandra?

TRAVIS: Allura?

MARISHA: Yeah. Let's split up, I guess?

TALIESIN: Let's all meet in the sitting room in ten minutes. So let's have anybody on the Council meet there in ten minutes. I'll send word to the guards to get everybody where they need to be. If anything's out of sort, it will instantly reported to us.

ASHLEY: Good plan.

LIAM: I'm going to get my shit.

LAURA: I want to put on my armor.

TALIESIN: I'm also getting my shit.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: And then go find Zahra.

MARISHA: I'm going to go look for Allura.

TRAVIS: I'll go for Cassandra with you because I don't trust that bitch.

LIAM: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Oh.

MATT: All right. You guys gather your stuff. At this time, Cassandra's awake, and she's actually in the process of dealing with the guards that are coming back with information. They've been sweeping parts of the town. Haven't found anyone else. There's been no real follow-up to any other figures that have been found, beyond the few select individuals. And it's at this time, as you guys gather your stuff and begin to head back out, that Allura comes into the front of the castle. She comes in, hair tossed, and she looks a little frazzled. “Is everyone all right?”

LAURA: Yes. Kima? Is she all right?

MATT: She looks over her shoulder, and you see Kima come walking in, wearing what looks like a long nightshirt. Her maul in her hand and dragging behind by the foot what looks to be a mostly-mashed face of one of the assassins that tried to find its way into their home. Dragging a long trail.

MARISHA: Still alive?

MATT: No, not alive at all. The head is caved in, and there's a long trail of crimson that leads all the way down the walkway, down the footpath of the castle, and disappears towards the base of the walkway at the north side of Whitestone. “(grunts)” And throws him. (repeated thuds) Tumbles onto the ground, smears across a bit of the stonework.

LAURA: Good work.

MATT: “You, too. I can see the rest of you guys, at least, seem to be okay.”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Who did get attacked, out of curiosity? What happened to yours?

MARISHA: This assassin came through my window.

TALIESIN: Did you kill him?

MARISHA: Yeah. Well, I… actually, I don't know. I chucked him out the window. He might still be alive.

TALIESIN: I'm going to turn to a guard and say, “Search underneath the window of that bedroom. Anything you find - look carefully, find a body. If you don't find a body, find a trail.” Good work. Windows are good.

SAM: Do “ra-kasha-kashas” typically hire people? Where do they come from? Do they come with a band of merry men? I don't know anything about them.

LAURA: They're just tigers. Do tigers -

MATT: Allura goes like, “What did you say?”

SAM: Oh, there was a “raka-sha-sha.”

TALIESIN: A rakshasa.

MARISHA: A rakshasa.

SAM: No, I think you're saying it wrong.

LAURA: A hotis. A hotis?

MARISHA: His NAME was Hotis. Rakshasas are devils from the Nine Hells.

MATT: “I'm quite familiar with them, yes.”

SAM: Do they travel with assassin friends all the time? Where do they come from?

MATT: “Well, they come from the hells, but they make allies all throughout the realm. They're manipulators. They masquerade as anyone that they think would help their current intent and goal. They lie, they deceive, they convert.”

LIAM: Keyleth and I encountered him last.

MARISHA: And Kashaw, wherever he is.

LIAM: And Kash. And I took his last blood, and I heard a threat, but I didn't make anything of it.

MARISHA: We watched him die.

LIAM: And here he is again, so I suspect this will happen again?

MATT: “So you slew this rakshasa tonight.”

TRAVIS: Well, this one did.

MATT: “Well, that will be vengeance on two, then. It will be back.”

SAM: Is there a way to prevent the “sha-ka-kan” from coming back?

LIAM: Is there a way to finish it off for good?

MARISHA: Permanently.

MATT: “There are a couple of ways. All of them involve going to its home plane and destroying it there. So unless you marvel a trip to the Nine Hells, it's going to be a bit of paranoia for a while. It does take weeks, months for them to regain their form, but the process is very painful for them and, as far as what I've read, at least, they only really care about getting back at the ones that took it from them.”

LAURA: So still him and you?

SAM: And now Pike.

MARISHA: Is it one of those things where it passes off down the line, or is this rakshasa going to be pissed at both of them?

MATT: “Since you're alive, its vengeance was not sated. I think that's two of you on its shit list.”

LIAM: Allura, would you be able to… give us guidance on how to get to it? I mean, this is a group decision, and I'm not going to be fooled in the same way again. I'm going to be sleeping with my fucking knives for a while. But this will just repeat. How do we get to it?

MATT: “Well, for right now, it's screaming its way back to the pit of its own creation. It will take weeks, months before it reforms. It will be very vulnerable during that time. Mind you, it's not the most welcoming place, either. But (sighs) if we make a journey there in a few weeks' time, we could probably find where it's currently recouping, and slay it for good.”

LAURA: How long will that take?

MATT: “How long will what take, the journey? Instantaneous. To find it, longer. To survive that journey, that is no easy task, as it is a place of great danger and great evil.”

LIAM: Are you able to locate it once it's reformed?

MATT: “It's possible. It depends on what sort of magic wards it may have. I don't know where it is. We could certainly try.”

MARISHA: I believe it's immune to certain magics, correct?

MATT: “That is the issue.”

ASHLEY: Do they get any stronger when they come back, or are they always the same?

MATT: “All creatures don't like to make the same mistake twice, thence the why it seems it brought friends.”

MARISHA: Speaking of those friends. You said these rakshasas are master manipulators. Is there a group or an organization here that has it out for us? I mean, I'm sure many, but -

MATT: “I am certain there are many. As there are a few that have it out for me, I'm certain.”

LIAM: Were there any survivors from our assailants?

TALIESIN: We're looking, but none of ours.

LIAM: (sighs) Well, if there are any, we follow it back to the source.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: In the meantime, I guess it's time to drink.

LIAM: (quietly) Also ale.

TRAVIS: (quietly) Also ale.

MATT: “It will be hard to find this rakshasa now or any time in the very near future, as it's still finding its seed of corporeal form. (sighs) But I agree, this has to be rectified.“

MARISHA: I still feel like we need to reach out to Vanessa. Let her know what's going on.

LIAM: Maybe up the -

MARISHA: Cost of the contract?

LIAM: - asking price on that?

LAURA: (scoffs) Yeah, good luck.

LIAM: (laughs)

MATT: "I'm a bit confused, but do what you need to do. Regardless,” and she looks to Gilmore, who has taken a breath now and has pulled an evening flask out of his night robe. He takes a swig off of it, goes, “I think we need to quicken our reinforcements of the city. I think we need to make certain that not only are we scry-proof, but I believe we need to find a way to alert ourselves of any sort of celestial or fiend intrusion.”

LAURA: So it's a fiend.

LIAM: A fiend? Also -

MATT: “The very definition.”

LIAM: This is not just a vendetta. It knows about Whitestone. It knows about our base of operations.

LAURA: How do you know that?

TALIESIN: Because it came here.

LIAM: It looked us in the face. It knows we're here. It knows where we are. It knows all of us. It knows him. It knows all of us.

TALIESIN: It may not know its value, but it does -

MATT: The rakshasa - at this point, Gilmore is like, “That's actually a very valid point. How would it - did it meet us? How would it know what I look like?”

MARISHA: Good point. Did it meet us?

LIAM: When was the last time you saw us before Kiki found you?

MATT: “You mean last night?”

LIAM: The last conversation we had.

LAURA: Okay, dinner?

MATT: “Dinner would have been the last time, yes.”

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: At this point, Allura thinks for a second. She goes, “I'm fairly certain that they can peer into the minds of those nearby and can read surface thoughts. It may know more secrets than you think it does, which makes it that much more important that we eliminate it.”

LIAM: Yeah, good. That guy is a liability.

SAM: We'll put it on the list.

LAURA: I know. Right next to the dragons?

MARISHA: He could be following us for a while.

LIAM: He could rat us out to the dragons.

LAURA: (sighs)

LIAM: He's fucking pissed off. He wants to hurt me, and now her, as badly as possible. All of you matter to us. I think the rakshasa comes before the dragons. Maybe not before the Vestiges, but on the list.

TALIESIN: If we can put some manpower towards discovering where he is and where he lies while we continue our search for the Vestiges, and then once we have a solid lead, we can follow it through.

MATT: “I can work on that.”

ASHLEY: Can I go over to the dead body that Kima threw into the middle of the room and cast Speak With Dead?

SAM: Ooh.

LIAM: (whispering) Yeah, girl.

TALIESIN: That's a way to go.

TRAVIS: Is his face super crushed?

TRAVIS: Is it like (krsch) Halloween mask inside-out?

MATT: Yeah, it's just smashed inward.

TRAVIS: Well hold on, let me reach into his mouth. And I reach up under his nasal cavity and I pop his face back out just a little bit.

SAM: Ugh.

LIAM: (zombie groans)

TRAVIS: It's like a deflated soccer ball, right?

MATT: Yeah, it's horrifying. Straight-up horrifying.

ASHLEY: Five questions.

SAM: Five questions?

LIAM: I thought it was three. Five? That's good.

MATT: Okay. All right. So you have five questions you can ask the creature. As it sits there and you guys watch as Pike comes over in her robe and sits down next to it. You touch your symbol and reach out and touch the body. And all of a sudden, you watch as the chest rises again. “(rasping inhale)” You hear this horrible sucking sound as air is brought into the chest cavity. He doesn't breathe out, he just holds the air in, and the deformed, wrecked, bone shard-pierced face that once was this assassin, which you can see now, it looks to be loosely elvish in appearance, or at least there's some essence of elvish to its form, but the eyes are gone, the eyes are just mush. It slowly sits up and turns towards you, Pike, going, “(rasping groans)”

ASHLEY: Who sent you?

MATT: “(slowly) Hotis…”

ASHLEY: Hotis.

MATT: “…hired us.”

ASHLEY: What was -

LAURA, LIAM, AND TRAVIS: (overlapping) Hotis hired us.

ASHLEY: Hotis hired us. What is your organization?

MATT: “We run The Clasp in Stillben.”

SAM: Stillben.

TRAVIS: The Clasp in Stillben.

LAURA: Sheesh.

ASHLEY: Three more questions.

TRAVIS: How did the rakshasa know to find us here? How did Hotis know.

ASHLEY: How did Hotis know to find us here?

MATT: “I don't know. He had information. He led us here. Instructed our strikes.”

SAM: How many men?

TALIESIN: How many of them were there?

ASHLEY: How many of you were there?

MATT: “We were six in total.”

LIAM: You've got one more question.

TALIESIN: Where were they all supposed to meet when everything was finished?

TRAVIS: Or who would know more than him?

LIAM: Who would know more?

LAURA: Who is his boss or something?

ASHLEY: Who his boss was?

TRAVIS: Or who does he report to?

LAURA: Within The Clasp. Who does he report to in The Clasp?

LIAM: Who gives you your orders?

ASHLEY: Who gives you your orders?

LAURA: (whispering) Within The Clasp.

ASHLEY: Within The Clasp?

MATT: (chuckling) That's a fine -

LAURA: I have one job on this ship.

ASHLEY: I have one job -

LAURA AND TRAVIS: It's stupid -

ASHLEY AND TRAVIS: (shouting) - but I'm going to do it!

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: So good.

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: “Spireling Veekar. (groans)”

MARISHA: Veekar.

MATT: And with that, the last bit of air that had been trapped in the chest cavity has been utilized and the body (rasping groan) goes back to its still rest, no longer moving, no longer puppeteered by your divine energies.

TRAVIS: I'll take care of this.

MARISHA: Veekar.

LAURA: Spireling Veekar.

TALIESIN: So I think we have four dead bodies. We're missing two, then?

LAURA: Wait, four dead bodies? Wait -

SAM: Wait, there's Kashaw's.

TALIESIN: Kashaw's? Oh.

LAURA: Plus Kima's.

TALIESIN: Mine, yours -

LAURA AND TALIESIN: Gilmore's.

MATT: And Gilmore's like, “(weak chuckle) I actually have one that's pretty rough in my place right now.”

LIAM: He got Akira'd.

MATT: “I got a little angry.”

LAURA: Did you kill one or two?

MATT: “Oh, just one.”

MARISHA: So the only one that's missing in action is the one that I shoved out the window?

TALIESIN: And we're waiting for news on whether that one -

MATT: “Is there one that was left alive?”

MARISHA: Well, there was one that was shoved out a window, so hopefully he died.

MATT: “We'll find out.”

TRAVIS: Hm. Sloppy.

LIAM: Broke his legs and his heart never woke.

MARISHA: I heard that, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh. (ahem) I said. Super.

LAURA: (laughs) Good save.

MATT: “All right. Drinks? Please?”

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: At some point, Percy, ask Gilmore about that robe.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah. I still actually have it, it occurs to me. I haven't put it down yet.

MATT: (laughs) He's holding it like a pair of soiled underpants, all -

TALIESIN: I've actually been using Bad News like a -

MARISHA: Like a surrender flag?

TALIESIN: Like spindle. Like a bindle.

MARISHA: There you go.

TALIESIN: Hobo.

MARISHA: Hobo bindle.

TALIESIN: This was given to Vax. It was mystical. It was attached to your skin.

LIAM: Peeling the skin off my flesh.

MATT: “(shudders)” He takes it for a second. He puts his hand over and his eyes flicker for a second with a spark of arcane energy and he sits back. “No, this is indeed a cursed robe. It's a Robe of Flaying.”

LAURA: A Robe of Flaying?!

TRAVIS: Flaying?

SAM AND LAURA: Gross.

ASHLEY: Yikes.

TRAVIS: Awesome.

SAM: Is it worth anything?

MATT: “(chuckles) To the right people, maybe.”

LIAM: The Clasp, yeah.

SAM: Well, why don't you take it?

MATT: “Oh, I don't want to have any hand in this type of business. "I'm sorry. I deal with above-the-board magical items. You've gone creative with me, but even that was relatively harmless. This slowly takes the skin off of its wearer. I don't wish to have this part of my repertoire.”

ASHLEY: If we destroy it, though, would that hurt Vax?

MATT: “Well, if you've removed it from him, then the enchantment's been broken.”

SAM: So does it - do you have to - anyone you put it on, it curses them?

LIAM: It sticks. It's like fucking flypaper.

SAM: Keep that robe. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'll keep it.

LAURA: In the Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah, it's not a bad idea.

LAURA: Don't play with it, Grog.

TRAVIS: Why?

LAURA: Just don't put it on because you think it will be fun.

LIAM: You look way better mostly naked, so don't -

TRAVIS: I'm not putting my bits where Vax's were. I'll just keep it in the Bag.

LIAM: Ow, that hurts my feelings.

LAURA: Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: Are your guards very well-trained in tracking?

TALIESIN: I honestly don't know. I haven't been here. But we hunt. We are… everybody here hunts.

LAURA: Trinket has their scent. I mean, I can send him to help.

TALIESIN: That's a great idea. That's a brilliant idea. Yes, please. We also, I might add, in theory, have a wolf patrolling the area.

TRAVIS: Yes, Baldrick's somewhere.

TALIESIN: And I'm sure he's aware that there's a commotion.

LIAM: I walk over to Gilmore for a second. Shaun, you know - sorry.

MATT: “Ah. Yes?”

LIAM: Wait, wait, wait. Hey, hand that over, big guy.

MATT: “But of course.”

LIAM: Yeah, thank you.

MATT: “You've certainly earned it.”

LIAM: You know everything about everything.

MATT: “(stuttering) I wouldn't say I know everything about everything.”

LIAM: It's close.

MATT: “Between the two of us,” and he motions toward Allura. “Pretty sure we know everything, but she more than I.”

LIAM: I can agree with that. We found this in a tomb.

LAURA: What are you pointing at?

SAM: His pec.

MARISHA: Your heart?

LAURA: Your boob?

LIAM: My fucking rock-hard pec. The ARMOR. I tap the armor, as you fucking very well knew, Laura Bailey. I kind of understand it. Can you tell anything about it?

LAURA: Other than the fact that it smells really bad?

LIAM: Shush, yeah, it does smell bad. Scanlan gave me some patchouli to rub on it, but it only does half the job. What can you tell me about it? It belonged to a god.

MATT: He takes a minute and walks around you, looking at the armor up and down. Looking at you up and down a little bit. But mostly at the armor. His eyes flare a few times with arcane sparks. “This is a powerful Vestige, my friend. This has existed for quite some time, and you've - well, there's certainly a bit of dark divine energy around it. It looks like it has the capability to resist most elements when given the instruction, and it safeguards the life of the bearer and it looks like there's some sort of a - Tell you what. Follow me.”

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: And he stops and he goes, “It's really me this time! Follow me.”

LIAM: I know it is.

MATT: “All right.” And he walks outside of the front of the castle to the walkway, stepping over the crimson smear that once was the one assassin. And he walks up to the edge of the sheer cliffs that are on each side of that walkway and the elevated, cleaved mountain the castle was built on. He walks up to the very edge with you and goes, “Do you trust me?”

LIAM: (quietly) I do.

MATT: As soon as you look down, you feel a thrust as he pushes you off the cliff. At that moment, you suddenly, instinctively, look up and from outside the back of the armor, (fwwsh) -

TRAVIS: What?!

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: - these giant black raven wings spill out from the sides.

LAURA: Wait, so you could have flown when you came out of the dragon?

LIAM: Only if I know how to work it.

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: You get the sense that this feature to the armor was only recently -

LAURA: Oh, shit.

TRAVIS: Oh, fucking shit.

TRAVIS: Get it, archangel.

MATT: You go from falling to swooping over the forest on the outside of Whitestone.

SAM: Oh, he's The Crow! He's The Crow!

LAURA: What the fuck? He can fly? HE can fucking fly?!

LIAM: After doing that, I double back and I fly up that same cliff and I lift Gilmore up in the sky.

MATT: “(startled noise)”

LIAM: (shouting) You fucking brilliant bastard! Thank you. Thank you. (sighs) This is embarrassing. I float us back down.

MATT: You can see he's a little nervous, but he's smiling. “(nervous laughter)”

LIAM: Sorry.

MATT: “Thank you. No, it's all right. I would have been fine.”

LIAM: You are a dear, dear friend. You are a dear friend. And I give him a big diagonal hug. A long, strong hug.

MATT: He freezes for a moment, still figuring out his boundaries with the dynamic being what it is, but eventually he gives in and you feel his arms take you in as well, and you guys have this long, honest, connecting hug. And as this happens, the wings also wrap around and envelop the both of you.

TRAVIS: Good moment.

LAURA: (frustrated) It's so ridiculous.

TRAVIS: He's alive. Let it go.

MATT: And then time seems to pass for a minute and as you release him, the wings (fluttering sound) scatter into black feathers in the wind and disappear.

SAM: (whispering) Wow.

LAURA: (frustrated noise)

MATT: He steps away from you and you can see there's just a little streak down the side of his face. And he reaches up and smacks you on the cheek a little bit. “Glad you're all right.”

LIAM: I am a great ally to you. And if you need any favors, I am your friend.

MATT: “That goes both ways. Don't forget that.”

LAURA: I walk up and I -

LIAM: Ow! Where were you, what the fuck - oh, you're -

LAURA: You flying fuck. You flying fuck!

LIAM: I forgot you were a rogue. Yeah…

LAURA: (angry noise) I mean, congratulations, it's really cool!

LIAM: That broom is really cool. That you stole.

LAURA: If I didn't fall off of it. You have fucking wings! Jesus. I walk away.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: (laughs)

LIAM: I follow her and I stop her and I give her a hug and I say, “I love you.”

LAURA: (angry groan)

LIAM: I love you. I love you. I love you. (whispering) And I'll be less of a fuckwit lately, I promise.

LAURA: Really?

LIAM: (whispering) Yeah.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: I love you, too. I'm glad you're not dead.

MARISHA: Keyleth has been in the door frame, watching all this happen. I'm in the door frame.

TALIESIN: I'm slowly - I'm going to walk in and have a moment and look Vax over.

LIAM: Hey, Shaun? Once in a while? All the time?

MATT: “Oh, that's once every dawn, that can return to you.”

LAURA: Oh. I'm glad I didn't push you off the cliff! I almost did. Wow, good to know.

MATT: (laughing) That would have been really funny.

LIAM: That would have been hilarious.

TRAVIS: Holy shit. Holy shit.

ASHLEY: (laughs) You dick. (gasps)

MATT: It's for up to an hour, it can last, just so you're aware. But once per day, you give yourself a fly speed of 60.

LIAM: 60. Same speed as my sister.

LAURA: No, I'm less, aren't I?

LIAM: Thank you, Shaun-slash-Matt.

TALIESIN: There's one last thing. And I walk up and I look you over and I pull out the raven head cloak clasp and I pin it to hold the cloak together. And it's very deep, pitted silver with a slight ruby tinge to it. And it smells FABULOUS. And it smells better the more you sweat. And it smells of the Raven Queen's temple. Now talk to Keyleth. I'm counting on you. Good luck. And I walk away.

LIAM: (yelling after him) You're hard to read, man!

TALIESIN: I know!

TRAVIS: Cask of ale is out and the ale is flowing.

LAURA: Oh, shit! Shit. Tracking the guy.

SAM: Have the guards reported yet?

MATT: By this time, some of the guards have come back, reporting that they haven't seen anything yet. There are folks that were following the tracks into the forest, but the tracks have mostly gone cold. Whoever it is knows how to not be found. It's part of their job.

SAM: You could spend the night tracking him.

LAURA: I could.

SAM: Or we could just drink.

MARISHA: Or we could just drink. We know who the fucker was. We know who he's going back to.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: We know he's going back to Stillben.

MARISHA: To Spireling Veekar. We know where he's headed.

TALIESIN: You guys are going to drink for a bit?

LIAM: I'll do whatever you do.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go out past the wall and see if I can yell for the wolf.

MARISHA: Galdrick.

TALIESIN: Galdrick.

MATT: Galdrick. All right.

TALIESIN: I'm bringing a swath from one of the -

MATT: Okay. You shout out for about 10, 15 minutes or so before you hear a distant howl. (howl)

TALIESIN: Galdrick!

MATT: A few more moments pass before you hear (panting). Coming up from the outside of the forest, the large gray dark wolf. (padding footfalls)

TALIESIN: I show the blood-soaked chunk.

MATT: “(sniffs)”

TALIESIN: There were six. Now there's one. If you find him, we would be forever grateful.

MATT: “(licks chops)” Licks his deep, pearly-white bladed incisors and turns around and - “(grunts)” - takes off into the forest at triple-speed.

TALIESIN: Now I'm going to go up and have a drink.

TRAVIS: Triple-speed, damn. That's a fast-ass wolf.

MATT: All right. You all at these twilight hours find yourselves gathering your friends and allies for a long-needed drink until the sun begins to rise. You all appreciate the friendship that you've maintained, the survival of those that were endangered, and eventually find yourself, rather tipsy, finding your way back to bed, this time with quadruple the guards at the door -

LAURA: Fully armored.

MATT: - of each of your rooms, resting. We'll take a quick break. We'll be back here to get to the next bit of this episode. See you guys here in a few minutes.
Break

[Critical Role resumes at 2:34:15]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back! So. As you guys find yourself having a good night's sleep, waking up restfully around midday to the early afternoon here in Whitestone. Everyone except for you, Vax. You, as you went to sleep, found, as opposed to a restful night, especially given the circumstance, a perpetual onslaught of terrible nightmares recapping the events of the night before with alternate possibilities, looking and seeing Gilmore plunging the blade into your stomach, seeing your friends and family torn apart by demons called forth by this rakshasa returning for vengeance. You were tossing and turning and woke up sweaty. Unfortunately, you do not get the benefits of a full rest. So you're still at the hit point value that you had before.

LIAM: And I can't use hit dice, right?

ASHLEY: What?

MATT: You can use hit dice.

LIAM: I can use hit dice?

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: I can also heal you.

LIAM: I think it might be more than that. I feel weird. I feel really weird. I'm going to have some - I'm going to have - What's the D&D term for Bloody Mary? I need a mimosa or a Bloody Mary and I'm going to take a rest.

MARISHA: A little hair of the dog?

LIAM: And use some hit dice.

TRAVIS: Technically, hair of the dog would be poisoning him again this morning.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah. Yeah.

TRAVIS: Which we can do.

MARISHA: Which we could do. You never know.

MATT: You actually take the time to go ahead and rest up, and even then, your body's just restless.

LIAM: Hit dice does nothing?

MATT: You find yourself unable to spend those, either. You're basically rocking in place and playing over the imagery in your mind over and over again, and there's a perpetual cold sweat across your brow.

LAURA: Can I go knock on his door in the morning?

LAURA: Can I knock?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Brother?

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Sorry. I don't mean to disturb you. I just feel really guilty. I just wanted to say sorry for being mad at you for being able to fly, because I'm actually really impressed and proud of you, and I'm glad you're not dead. Is all I wanted to say.

LIAM: I open the door, scratching my arm.

LAURA: What the fuck is wrong with you?

LIAM: I don't feel very well.

LAURA: You smell better.

LIAM: (sighs) I'm just going to ignore that. Could you do me a favor, if you really feel so special to me. Could you get Allura for me, maybe? Send Allura to my room.

LAURA: I mean, yeah, she's not in the castle, but I can find -

LIAM: Where does she - where is - yeah, you've got a broom. Could you go fly over there?

LAURA: Yeah, no fucking -

LIAM: You can fly as much as you want, all day. All day long, right?

LAURA: This is true. I will go find Allura for you as an apology for being a dick last night. And I fly off and I go try to find Allura.

MATT: You come to Allura's home -

LIAM: I go have diarrhea in the chamber pot in my room.

MATT: Okay. Ugh.

TRAVIS: Talk to your daggers while you do it.

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah.

MATT: You make your way back to the house where Allura's been staying and knock on the door. Door opens. Kima's there.

LAURA: Oh. Hi, dear.

MATT: “Hi. You guys rest okay? Everything all right?”

LAURA: Oh, yes -

MATT: “Any problems?” She grabs her maul from the side of the door.

LAURA: No, no, everything's great. Is Allura in here, as well?

MATT: “Yeah, she's - would you like some coffee?”

LAURA: I would love some.

MATT: As you come inside, you can smell coffee brewing.

MARISHA: I've got time.

MATT: You see Allura comes out of the kitchen area of this home that she's staying in. “Oh, hi!”

LAURA: Hi!

MATT: “I'll get another cup.”

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: And she leaves.

LIAM: Does she have that beautiful but messy morning hair that takes two hours to prep for a movie?

MATT: Actually, no. Her hair is perfect.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah. I'm sure.

LAURA: Of course it is.

LIAM: Fucking wizards.

LAURA: Prestidigitation.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Fucking blow-outs every morning.

MATT: No, she - yeah. Way too well put together for being this early in the conscious day.

LAURA: I look at Kima. How the fuck does she do it?

MATT: “I know, you're telling me, right?”

LAURA: Right?

MATT: “It's obnoxious. (sighs)”

LIAM: (singing) I say bitch…

MARISHA: (cracks up)

MATT: She brings coffee back and sets it in the center of this serving table for guests. You start drinking the coffee. It's very well put on, nice and sweet. "So, what -”

LAURA: Oh! I forgot. I came here for a reason. My brother is shaken up from last night, and I think he might be a little worried about - I don't know, he sent me to find you. I'm not exactly sure what's going on, but he looked terrible, and he thought maybe you would be able to help?

MATT: “It was a very rough night.”

LIAM: I mean, you're not a cleric, but - I don't know, he seemed to think he could use your help.

MATT: “Let's go have a look, then.” And so they go ahead and they walk back with you.

LAURA: I'm going to catch up. You get a head start. I'm just going to get some more coffee.

MATT: (laughs) It's good coffee.

TRAVIS: You hear a whisper from the coffee mug saying, “I own you.”

(all laugh)

LAURA: I know you do, darling. I know you do.

ASHLEY: You didn't perception check the cup!

LIAM: Find my dominoes. They're here.

ASHLEY: What's he looking up?

LAURA: I don't know.

MATT: Eventually, you've found your way wandering through the hall to get some food, sunken sockets. Grog passes by you in the hallway, and you see Vax, hand against the wall, walking by, looking dazed and a little weary.

TRAVIS: You all right, mate?

LIAM: I've got the shits.

TRAVIS: Oh. Like, the shits or the twirls?

LIAM: Bad - what's the difference?

TRAVIS: The shits it's just one end, the other, both. North, south, all at the same time. It's like a relay race.

LIAM: I know what you mean now. Yes.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: Well, I was just - you know, I might be crossing that threshold. And I jump into a side door -

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: - and send it out both sides. Two exits, no waiting.

MATT: Oh.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Oh, shit. Amazing.

ASHLEY: (dryly) Wow, I've never heard of that.

MATT: You proudly hear, through the doorway.

LIAM: This happened to me when I was six, by the way. I'm talking about Liam, not Vax.

TRAVIS: If you've had the twirls, you never forget them.

MATT: All right. As time passes, eventually your sister, Allura, and Kima make their way towards you to go ahead and check in.

LAURA: Is he still in the toilet or did he get out yet?

MATT: He's made his way out.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Allura takes a look at you. “You certainly don't look well.”

LIAM: (hoarsely) I'm having really bad - I had bad dreams all night long. I relived the moment from last night and I've got really bad… bathroom etiquette.

MATT: “It might be lingering enchantment from the robe. Let me try something.” And she pulls back and thumbs mentally through some sort of index in her head and brings her hand up. “Eras to no est.” And begins drawing this strange glyph in the air, that where her finger traces, you can see a slight sparkle falls behind before it forges some sort of a letter that you don't recognize, and it passes through you (foomf), and as it gets through, you can't help but to get pushed back for a second. “Do you feel any different?”

LIAM: (fart noise)

MATT: No change, from what you can tell. Still just… bad place.

LIAM: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. (sighs) I'm new to this, but - Can I cast Lay on Hands on myself?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Pray to my god. It's the worst. Can you help?

MATT: The effect hits and intends to remove any poison, disease circumstance. No change in physical presence.

LIAM: (whispering) Fuck.

ASHLEY: (whispering) What the fuck?

MATT: “Kima, have you any ideas?” “Here! Let me have a look at you.” She pulls you down to her position, just pushing your eyelids open.

TRAVIS: Yeah, be very thorough.

MATT: “Grog, do you want to help me with this?”

TRAVIS: Yep, absolutely. Open your mouth, stick out your tongue.

LIAM: You're not going to slip me the digit, are you?

TRAVIS: Stick out your tongue!

MATT: “I'm not going to.”

TRAVIS: I grab his tongue.

LIAM: Aaah!

TRAVIS: Kima, you see anything in there? Any bumps? Mumps?

LIAM: (groans)

MATT: “Just seems tired to me.”

TRAVIS: Pull his tongue a little bit more.

LIAM: Aaah! (garbled) Grog!

TRAVIS: I release, I release.

LIAM: Ohhh, fuck.

ASHLEY: Can I wake up and come out into the hallway?

MARISHA: I'll join Pike.

MATT: You guys walk out and see as Allura sits back with a slight chuckle next to Vex, as you see both Grog and Kima manhandling a very exhausted-looking Vax in the center of the hallway.

LIAM: Oh, it's funny to you, eh?

ASHLEY: What are you guys looking for?

TRAVIS: Oh, Vax doesn't feel well. He shit and puked all over the area in the back.

MARISHA: Oh no!

ASHLEY: Can I check him?

MARISHA: Was it the crab cakes?

LIAM: I didn't have those.

MATT: You want to make a Medicine check?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I ate them, and I was fine.

MARISHA: Really? The crab cakes messed with me a little.

SAM: I'm reading this whole time. Just reading and reading.

MATT: You hear this echo in the distance of him shitting himself. And you're like, “eh.”

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 23. You push Kima aside and take a very intense look at his body.

ASHLEY: Move aside, move aside, move aside.

MATT: “Oh.” Very intense look over. Physically, there does not appear to be any ailment to him, whatsoever. There are traces of exhaustion in him, and you do have a point of exhaustion, by the way, for a lack of evening's rest. But there's no signs of onset of splotchiness or diseases. There's no pulsing or darkened vein marks. Nothing physical.

ASHLEY: No poison?

MARISHA: What did you try on him, Pike?

ASHLEY: Medicine check.

LAURA: Are you cursed? Is he cursed?

MARISHA: I go up to Vax. Does he still have the brooch on?

MATT: The brooch that was given to him by Percy.

MARISHA: I look at it.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I can tell you what is in there. It's nothing fancy.

TRAVIS: You're killing him.

MARISHA: Is this the skull I gave you?

TALIESIN: Well, it's a cast of - the skull you gave me is still in my bag.

MARISHA: You cast it? Wow.

TALIESIN: I did.

MARISHA: That's impressive.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: My brother, puking his guts out.

MARISHA: Sorry.

LIAM: Not right now (retch).

TALIESIN: Oh, god.

MARISHA: Ooh. Allura, what did you try?

TALIESIN: Did he just throw up everywhere?

LIAM: No, I stopped it. (moans)

TALIESIN: Let it out. Let it out.

MATT: “I attempted to dispel, in case there was any spell that was still sustained on him.”

MARISHA: Kima, did you try Restoration?

MATT: Kima goes, “Not really my specialty at the moment. My apologies.”

ASHLEY: I'll do it. I'll do it.

MARISHA: I've got Greater Restoration learned.

ASHLEY: We could try.

MARISHA: Pike and I will tag-team a Greater Restoration.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: (groans)

TRAVIS: Percy, if you're feeling gross, you can imagine - go examine the leftovers over there.

TALIESIN: Is there some vomit in the corner?

TRAVIS: Yep, yep. Just make sure you crawl in on your hands and knees.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go poke at it just to see if there's anything in there that looks funny.

LIAM: Only some of it is vomit.

TALIESIN: I'm well-aware. I have siblings, I've seen this before.

LIAM: (laughs)

MATT: And so as Percy has wandered off at this time, you guys both hold hands and channel, through both of your abilities, the Greater Restoration spell. Suddenly, you feel like this dark hook that was in the center of your being is lifted. And as it dissipates, you're still exhausted, and still lost an entire evening's worth of rest, but whatever was keeping you in that nightmarish realm of stasis seems to have been dispelled.

LIAM: How's my intestines?

MATT: Better. Tired. Your midsection is very sore from the constant flexing.

MARISHA: Did Pike and I notice anything when we ripped out this darkness from his chest?

MATT: You gather that there was some curse that had taken hold of his body.

LAURA: Ah! He was cursed.

ASHLEY: Yeah, he was cursed.

MARISHA: Like, by the rakshasa, probably?

MATT: You gather, probably something to do with the rakshasa, yeah.

LAURA: Grog, can I have your jug for a moment?

TRAVIS: Why?

LAURA: I just want to get some water.

TRAVIS: What kind of water?

LAURA: Regular-ass water.

TRAVIS: I'll do it.

LAURA: Not ass-water. Just regular water.

TRAVIS: Could I have some ass-water, please?

LAURA: No, no. Just regular water, Grog.

ASHLEY: No, Grog.

TRAVIS: Regular water, please?

MATT: Jug fills up with clear, cool water.

LAURA: Drink this.

LIAM: All of it?!

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Are you sure that won't make me throw up, as well?

LAURA: You're very dehydrated, seriously.

ASHLEY: As much as you can.

TALIESIN: There's no signs of poisoning in any of the remains, is there?

LIAM: (gulping sounds)

MATT: No. In fact, you spend probably a good three to four minutes pushing through Vax refuse while nobody else has thought to actually come and stop you when they've already figured out what the problem was.

TALIESIN: That's fine.

MARISHA: Hey, Percy!

TRAVIS: He still feels bad, keep looking!

MARISHA: Hey, Percy, you find anything? Sorry, haven't found anything yet, Percy. Keep going. It might be clues.

TALIESIN: It will take - if I don't see anything in three minutes -

MATT: Roll a medicine check.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Awful people. That's a 14.

TRAVIS: Find a toy car…

MATT: It seems fairly standard bile and excrement.

TALIESIN: Nothing, nothing, no poison.

MARISHA: Find anything, Percy?

TALIESIN: (annoyed) No.

MARISHA: Oh. Maybe you should keep looking.

MATT: No signs of parasites, nothing.

LIAM: Are there any feathers?

LAURA: Percival!

MATT: There is one feather.

MARISHA: Do a litmus test. Is it basic or acid? We don't know.

LAURA: Percival, stop. He was cursed.

TALIESIN: I can actually have everybody killed in their sleep. This is actually one of the perks of sleeping here. I don't even have to do it myself. I come out and I'm -

TRAVIS: Are you done with the jug? Can I have that back, please?

TALIESIN: (shudders)

TRAVIS: Thank you.

LIAM: Grog, does that thing make mimosas?

LAURA: Oh!

MARISHA: Ooh!

TRAVIS: Mimosas?

LAURA: Or Bloody Marys?

TALIESIN: Mimosas.

TRAVIS: Well, there's one way to find out. Mimosas, please.

MATT: No effect.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Ask for Bloody Marys. Bloody Marys.

TRAVIS: Bloody Marys, please.

MATT: No effect.

TRAVIS: Fuck!

LAURA: Does it not work anymore? Ask for mayonnaise.

TRAVIS: Look, you put a lot of stress on it, all right? It made your ass-water just fine.

ASHLEY: Can you ask for some ale?

TRAVIS: No, I think it only works for a little bit every day.

LAURA: Aw.

TRAVIS: You could try it.

ASHLEY: Ale?

LAURA: Please.

MATT: (fwssh) Fills with dark ale.

TRAVIS: Holy shit, you're magic!

MARISHA: Oh, we just found a loophole!

LAURA: Good job!

TRAVIS: (laughing) Monster magic!

ASHLEY: I drink some and then pass it over.

SAM: Does it make mixed drinks?

TALIESIN: We hardly can make cocktails.

LAURA: Oh, that's probably bad for you right now, but that's all right.

TALIESIN: No, this breakfast beer is perfectly reasonable.

MARISHA: It needs to go to a bartending class.

ASHLEY: Hair of the wolf.

TALIESIN: His face touched that. I'm just dipping in.

LIAM: So studious.

TRAVIS: Oh, you're reading.

MATT: At this point, you hear a guard's voice shout, “Hail, Vox Machina! Downstairs, please.”

TALIESIN: Oh, god.

TRAVIS: We did your - give me the jug. Don't you fucking hold onto that, Percy, you give it back right now.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: I take one more big sip and toss it at him.

LIAM: Oh, catch it!

TRAVIS: I catch it.

MATT: Scanlan, are you still reading this morning?

SAM: I mean, I'd tell everyone, “Call me if it's important. I've got to do this.”

MATT: Okay. Did you get a full night's rest, though?

SAM: I did.

MATT: Okay, yeah, so your exhaustion point is gone. All right. So you guys head downstairs.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: As you get there, the front gates to Whitestone castle - no, the front doors to the main entranceway are partially open and the guards are waiting there as you see a shadow step in from the outside daylight.

LAURA: It's a guy?

MARISHA: I light up my hands in defense.

MATT: You see step inside to the center of the castle, a very large, dark-furred wolf carrying something within his jaws.

TRAVIS: Good boy.

MATT: Drops down on the ground another dark-cloaked figure.

MARISHA: Is he still alive?

MATT: He is not alive. There is a snapped neck on this individual.

LAURA: Good job!

MATT: You can see a series of scrapes across the face. This person, as you go and inspect, had been rushing quickly through the forest and had taken a number of small injuries in the haste to escape. However, could not escape the ever-watching vigil.

ASHLEY: Ah!

LAURA: Fuck, yeah.

TRAVIS: I mean, we might as well let him keep his prize.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's all his. Check the body for bits and then the rest is his.

LAURA: I want to check the body to see if I can find anything useful.

MATT: Okay, yeah. You actually find about 320 gold pieces on the body.

SAM: Did we inspect any of the other bodies?

MARISHA: No, we didn't.

LAURA: There was a lot going on.

MATT: You find six vials of poison.

LAURA: Whoa.

LIAM: Give that shit to me.

SAM: What kind? Just poison?

MARISHA: Fuck yeah.

MATT: You're not too familiar with poisons. Vax would be. He could have a look at it.

LAURA: And you said 300 gold?

TRAVIS: 320.

MATT: 300 gold. And you find what looks to be a fist-sized glass sphere.

LAURA: A what-sized glass sphere?

MARISHA: Glass sphere?

MATT: Fist-sized glass sphere, about that big.

TALIESIN: It might be a gazing sphere. Be careful. Keep it under cover. Keep it wrapped in something.

LIAM: I want to walk out towards our beast here and hold out my hand.

MATT: He walks up to you. (sniffs) Smells your hand, and steps into it. He head-butts the palm of your hand and then runs his head under it.

ASHLEY: Oh. Percy, can I touch him?

MATT: There's a familiar scent. You can see there's an immediate familiarity with you that wasn't there before.

LAURA: Oh, it's the Raven Queen. Her champion.

LIAM: I just scrooch under his giant neck. You want to be friends with me?

MATT: You can see the eyes, dark and piercing into you. “(grunts)”

LIAM: You be strong, I'll be fast. You be strong and fast. I'll be fast.

(shooka shooka shooka)

TRAVIS: Go give him a pet, Pike.

ASHLEY: Can I put my hand out to him?

MATT: He glances towards you.

LIAM: She's all right. She's all right.

MATT: You put your hand out?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: “(sniff sniff)” He sniffs your hand. “(snorts)”

ASHLEY: Oh! Can I try scratching at his ear?

MATT: You do, and he seems to begrudgingly give into it.

ASHLEY: (laughs) I go, “Ohhh.”

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: I love him.

TRAVIS: Sourpuss.

LAURA: Can I check out the sphere that I'm looking at?

TRAVIS: Baldrick, thank you. You are free to do with this as you will.

MATT: “(grunt, chomp)” He picks it up in his jaws again and starts walking outside. Spits it on the outside of the grounds, rolling off the edge. It doesn't go completely off, but one of the legs is dangling off the side, and the guards wait there, then take it and pull it away. The wolf's not going to eat the dead body. But it's done. He's done his job. He takes it out of the castle, gets it out of your way, and then begins to step back down the walkway path south of the castle, making his way back towards Whitestone and the surrounding forest.

TALIESIN: Good boy. Good boy.

LAURA: I shake it.

MATT: You shake it. You actually look inside. There's a cloudy liquid at the center of it. When it was at rest, it had no real motion, but as you shake it, it swirls on the inside.

LAURA: Oh, shit! I made something happen.

LIAM: Bloop. Outlook shady.

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: You found a magic 8-ball!

TRAVIS: Signs point to yes.

LIAM: (laughs)

TALIESIN: We'll stop by Gilmore's on our way back up to the front hall.

LAURA: Allura, do you know what this is?

MATT: She takes a look at it. There's a little sparkle of arcane energy in her eyes again. You're starting to get the theme here. There is a specific spell that she's using to identify these objects. You've seen it done before. She takes a look at it and goes, “Well, I can see why this would be very useful for a member of the Clasp. It's a Scrying Eye.” And she throws it back to you.

LAURA: (gasps)

MARISHA: It's a scry - what?

LIAM AND SAM: A Scrying Eye.

LAURA: A Scrying Eye?

MARISHA: Oh, yeah. Sure.

MATT: When you take, essentially, 10 minutes to focus on the eye, you can scry as per the spell. But it can only be used for 10 minutes and it cannot be used until the next dawn.

MARISHA: Can it be used by anybody?

MATT: Well, in theory. You'll have to find out.

TALIESIN: And what can it see, precisely?

LAURA: This fist-sized glass sphere -

MATT: Anything a scrying spell could.

MARISHA: It works like scrying.

LAURA: You can scry… Oh, you can scry for anything.

MATT: As per the spell. Once per day.

LIAM: What she does to waste a spell, you can do as a freebie. And you're so nosy, so it's perfect for you.

LAURA: It actually is really perfect.

TALIESIN: That's disquieting. Excellent.

LAURA: I really, really like this thing.

MATT: You can see Allura. Her face gets a little stern at this. “This is precisely the issue we have here. If they could scry information, anyone can. Which is why I'm going to get with Gilmore and go and get together with the rest of the arcane minds here in Whitestone, and we're going to try to ward this place from any sort of intrusion. If possible, I'd like to blanket this entire area with illusion. I'd like it so those who should not know that Whitestone even exists do not.”

LIAM: Is there anything we can do to help?

MATT: “Honestly, do what you're doing. Although, I may need some aid from you, there.” And she looks towards you, Pike, and says, “If we're going to find out where this rakshasa is and how to head it off at the pass in the coming weeks, I think your divine nature would be of great aid. You and Keeper Yennan. Between the two of you, I think we could map out a plot to head it off at the pass, and when you return and are ready, head into the hells ourselves and take it down while there's still time.”

ASHLEY: I would be glad to help.

MATT: “All right.”

ASHLEY: It's okay. I can come back to you guys at any time.

LIAM: What do you mean?

MARISHA: But you're so important, Pike.

ASHLEY: Well, I don't know.

MARISHA: We tend to need you a lot.

LAURA: We can give her one of the stones.

MARISHA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Any time you need me. (laughs) Ish. I will try to be there.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: Here. You take this.

ASHLEY: A sending stone?

LIAM: Should you need us.

LAURA: Yeah, should you need us.

ASHLEY: Oh.

MARISHA: I have the other one, currently.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll keep this with me.

MARISHA: Okay.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you keep practicing to be a monster.

ASHLEY: Okay, I will, Grog.

TRAVIS: Okay.

ASHLEY: I'm a monster!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: So you write down “gate stone” on your inventory.

TALIESIN: (quietly) She's staying in Whitestone while we do our work. (louder) Thank you for keeping my home safe.

ASHLEY: You're welcome.

TALIESIN: Thank you. (sighs)

MARISHA: Well, at least it's not as far as Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: That's true.

ASHLEY: No, it's not.

TALIESIN: We won't be gone long.

ASHLEY: No. And maybe I'll meet you very soon.

LAURA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: I'll just help out where I can. We got him once. I can get him again.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: (cackles)

ASHLEY: (laughs)

MATT: “As you can.”

TRAVIS: Dragon-slayer and Rakshasa-slayer.

ASHLEY: I'm a monster.

MATT: “All right. Where are you off to, then?”

TALIESIN: I'd say one more proper night's sleep, then into the Feywild.

LAURA: The Feywild.

TRAVIS: Feywild?

TALIESIN: We've seen what the Vestiges can be. I think they're… terribly important. And we can return from the Feywild immediately and in theory, be right back here when we're finished, and perhaps by then we'll have an avenue of attack to this rakshasa.

LAURA: And we can just pop on in there because of you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yes.

LIAM: We're going to make you a beast.

LAURA: Oh. Sure.

MARISHA: Beefing up the twins.

LIAM: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Beast.

LAURA: Let's find it.

MARISHA: I go up to Pike. Can we take a quick walk?

ASHLEY: Of course.

MARISHA: Before we take off?

TALIESIN: I figure we would take one full night's sleep -

MARISHA: Before I take us in? Okay.

TALIESIN: We leave at dawn?

ASHLEY: We plan at dawn?

MARISHA: Plan at dawn? (laughs)

TALIESIN: We plan at dawn.

MARISHA: We plan to leave at dawn.

TALIESIN: We plan to leave at dawn.

TRAVIS: You thought it was stupid when I said it, but what?

ASHLEY: They learned.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Right on thirty is fine, if you say 9:00, 9:30.

MARISHA: Yeah. 9:00, 9:30. We plan ahead.

TALIESIN: Barring traffic.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to take a walk with Pike.

LAURA: You just have a Trapper-Keeper full of appointments?

MATT: You just walk down the path from Whitestone castle?

MARISHA: Yeah, whatever. We take a nice stroll around the Sun Tree.

MATT: All right, so you guys start making your way down towards Whitestone proper. As you walk along the way…

MARISHA: I don't know, really, how to start this conversation. (sighs) I guess I just wanted to talk to you, and maybe you can give a little bit of insight and help clear my head.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: And I didn't think about it until we were in Scanlan's spa the other day, and you said you were really confused, and I'm really confused, and I didn't know you were confused because I feel like if I knew you were confused, then I wouldn't feel so bad about being confused because we're confused together.

ASHLEY: I feel confused… all the time.

MARISHA: Do you? I do, too!

ASHLEY: Yes! Just in a perpetual state of confusion.

MARISHA: The world is so big.

ASHLEY: I think that's just what life is.

MARISHA: (sighs) Right. The world's really big.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: Very confusing.

LAURA AND LIAM: (laugh)

MARISHA: I guess I just - I've always respected you and looked up to you, and… you're a cleric of Sarenrae, but you still seem to be very much in control of your life and your destiny, and you seem to know where you're going.

(boxes fall offscreen)

MARISHA: Fucking… (shouts) Assassin!

MATT: You look around and you see a boy holding a wheelbarrow nearby is picking up a bunch of fruit that had fallen out. “I'm terribly sorry. Didn't mean to bother you.” He puts them back in and keeps wheeling on.

ASHLEY: It's all right. It's okay.

MARISHA: I've always loved, “My cabbages!”

MATT: “My cabbages!” Yes.

MARISHA: Anyway, Sorry, it was distract - loud noises.

ASHLEY: It's okay. I feel like maybe I just look that way, because I don't feel like I have much of anything together, or know where I'm going.

MARISHA: (laughs) I guess that's probably all of us.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: I guess I just - I'm a little curious on how your relationship with Sarenrae works, because it doesn't necessarily seem like she… is in control of you.

ASHLEY: No.

MARISHA: Or has dominion over you.

ASHLEY: It's an interesting thing. I think… She just helps when we need her, or when I need her, and I think for the rest of the time, She just -

MARISHA: Does her own thing?

ASHLEY: - does her own thing.

MARISHA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: It was interesting going to the Temple of the Raven Queen. She seems… very interesting to me.

MARISHA: How do you mean?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

MARISHA: Like more…

ASHLEY: She's just very involved.

MARISHA: Involved? Yeah.

ASHLEY: But maybe that's - maybe that's because Vax has fully given himself to Her.

MARISHA: Would you say you haven't fully given yourself to Sarenrae?

ASHLEY: (hesitantly) I think I try to, but there's always that little part of me that thinks… or has doubt? So I don't know.

MARISHA: Growing up in the Ashari tribe, we were taught that the gods mind their own business and we mind our own. I don't have any disrespect for them, but also want to… tread lightly.

ASHLEY: Yeah. I think that's a very good way to handle it.

MARISHA: Okay. I don't know. I guess I don't know what I really wanted to find. I guess misery loves company.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: It feels better knowing I'm not the only one confused.

ASHLEY: Yes, there are two confused souls in the world. I'm sure there are so many more.

MARISHA: I confuse you?

ASHLEY: Yeah. (laughs) Hugs.

MARISHA: Hugs. Well. I'm beginning to get the idea that we're going to be intermingling with gods a little bit more, so.

ASHLEY: I think we will.

MARISHA: I guess it's something I'm going to have to start getting comfortable with.

ASHLEY: I think you should. And I think… you should get comfortable with Vax.

LAURA: (laughs)

MARISHA: (embarrassed) Oh!

ASHLEY: I think he really fancies you.

MARISHA: (weakly) Uh-huh?

ASHLEY: But don't be scared.

MARISHA: I'm so terrified.

ASHLEY: Just know that things are not forever…

MARISHA: (sighs) I think that's my fear.

ASHLEY: And just have fun, you know?

MARISHA: (weak laughter) I haven't had fun in a long time.

ASHLEY: Well, you should.

MARISHA: I should.

ASHLEY: We all need a little fun. (chuckles) Well, I'll see you very soon.

MARISHA: You're always with us, wherever we go.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: (sighs)

ASHLEY: I love you.

MARISHA: I love you.

SAM: When I heard she was leaving, I went out looking for Pike, and I've come up to where they are.

MATT: They're both standing at the northern base of the Sun Tree in the center of the town square. You see them hugging and give each other a kiss on the cheek.

SAM: (out of breath) Oh, sorry.

MARISHA: (shouting) Assassin!

SAM: No, no, it's me. It's me. It's me. Sorry. Sorry.

ASHLEY: Oh.

MARISHA: Haa - sure.

SAM: There was a very frightened child over there with a bunch of fruit.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Oh, he just -

MARISHA: I might have screamed in his face.

ASHLEY: Yeah, we thought he was an assassin.

MARISHA: Assassin, yeah.

SAM: He was crying. Maybe you should go - here, take a gold piece. Why don't you go buy something from him?

MARISHA: Okay, yeah. What do you want? You want some limes? Some grapefruit?

SAM: I love a good lime.

MARISHA: You love a good lime? I'll go to him and get some limes.

ASHLEY: See if he has a Choco Taco or -

MARISHA: Yeah, sure, yeah! Yeah, yeah, okay. I'm going to go to the kid.

MATT: Choco Taco, by the way, is Draconic for a fine cheese sandwich in Wildemount. It's a delicacy.

MARISHA: It's like one of those traveling food carts? You've got to track them on social media to see where he's going to be?

MATT: Keyleth skips off in the direction -

ASHLEY: Love you, Kiki!

SAM: Pike, sorry. I didn't know we were parting ways.

ASHLEY: I know. Maybe it won't be for long, but I think I should stay.

SAM: Well, I respect that. I just wanted to - before we bid adieu, I wanted - I can't believe we're leaving you again. It's so sad.

ASHLEY: I know.

SAM: But I just wanted to clear the air a bit. You know, a short while ago, I proposed marriage. I've been thinking about it a lot -

ASHLEY: I know. I did not forget.

SAM: - and I hope you have been, too.

ASHLEY: Yes. I have been thinking about it so much.

MARISHA: About this time, I take the limes and I go, “(shouting) Hey, Pike! Look! Fun!” As I juggle them. I'm having fun! (forced laughter)

ASHLEY: I'm proud of you!

TALIESIN: I feel that this is a skill check. No. I spent too long in high school learning how to juggle. Skill check.

MATT: Make an acrobatics check.

MARISHA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: No! That's not how it works.

MARISHA: Fuck you, Percy, you're not here!

TALIESIN: (laughs)

TRAVIS: It's off the table. It's an automatic fail.

MARISHA: It landed on a -

LIAM: It's a fudge. It landed on a blanket on an angle.

MARISHA: (laughs) What is it, just a straight dex?

MATT: Acrobatics.

MARISHA: Acrobatics?

TALIESIN: Sorry. Sorry. I have -

MARISHA: 10!

MATT: 10. The limes (thud) all over the ground.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: (forced laughter) This is fun! I'll just keep going.

MATT: Keyleth slowly backs away, realizing the moment.

MARISHA: Sorry!

MATT: Goes to get less-bruised limes.

SAM: Anyway, listen, before you do what you're going to do and we're going to go off on our way, I just wanted to say that I am here to officially absolve you of that proposal, and I rescind it. I was foolish to do so, and I don't want there to be any strings attached when we leave, and I think, really, with you on the cusp of parting ways and me seeing my daughter and everything, everything's come into a bit of a clearer focus, and… I think I've always been in love with the idea of you. You know, you're so perfect and beautiful and smart and -

ASHLEY: It was the hairy shoulders, wasn't it.

(all laugh)

SAM: But I don't want to love an idea. I want to love a girl. And I think in all of this time of pining after you, I forgot to just hang out with you and know you as a person, and I'm sorry for that.

ASHLEY: That's okay, Scanlan.

SAM: So I'm sorry for objectifying you or whatever.

LAURA AND LIAM: (giggle)

MARISHA: (laughing) “Or whatever.”

ASHLEY: It's okay. These things happen. And maybe it wasn't the best time, and maybe someday in the future, we can just reconnoiter and see if we want to make a - just talk about it again, I guess.

SAM: We'll be friends.

ASHLEY: We'll be friends.

SAM: We'll be friends. Listen, I will always love you, but I don't want this to be a barrier in our friendship anymore, so I'm taking it off the table. And besides, all I really want is to matter to someone, and I do now, and that's very new for me, and confusing, and exhilarating, and I've got to figure out how to do it and, well, I'll work on that, and you work on whatever you're working on, and I will say this before we leave. I'm a little older than you, so I can give you some advice.

ASHLEY: Oh, I - okay.

(all laugh)

SAM: I will say, speaking as someone who has lost out on years of a relationship with someone I care deeply about, if you have someone out there that you love, you should tell that person, or, at least, tell someone about it. It's a weight that you're going to continue to bear, and you're going to miss out on months and years of either knowing or not knowing.

ASHLEY: That's very true.

SAM: You don't have to tell me, but you're the bravest woman I know, and you should be brave enough to just admit your feelings.

ASHLEY: (sighs) Well, maybe -

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: (stuttering) I'll think on it more. And just, yeah. I have to get - maybe I'll get more courage just by staying here and, you know… But thank you for the advice, wise old man.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Bulletproof to peer pressure.

SAM: Anyway, I just wanted to say -

ASHLEY: But you are very charming. I just wanted to tell you that.

SAM: Ah. It's not happening, sorry.

ASHLEY: Okay, okay.

(extended laughter)

SAM: Just so I'm clear.

ASHLEY: Nothing.

SAM: Off the table now.

ASHLEY: Off the table. Nothing.

(others continue to laugh)

ASHLEY: All right. Well.

SAM: I'm sorry. I just have to let you down.

ASHLEY: It's really okay.

(laughs) All right.

SAM: All right, well. Oh! Hugs?

ASHLEY: Just a friend hug.

SAM: Of course. Of course.

LIAM: Careful you don't get velcroed to her shoulders.

MATT: Make another acrobatics check.

MARISHA: (laughs) Worse. Eight. I'm trying, Pike! (crying) I'm having so much fun!

ASHLEY: It's okay! It's okay! We'll talk later.

MARISHA: (crying) Huh?

ASHLEY: Can I - I'll just say bye to the rest of the group.

LAURA: (unhappy noise) Oh, oh.

ASHLEY: It's okay. You don't need to cry yet.

LAURA: It's all going so fast.

ASHLEY: Maybe we'll see you very soon.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

LIAM: Are we going already?

LAURA: I'm just so proud.

ASHLEY: Wait, are we going already or do we have the night?

TALIESIN: We have the night to sleep and we leave at dawn.

ASHLEY: Sorry, I just wanted to give you a hug.

LAURA: I just really wanted to hug you, too.

ASHLEY: Yeah, because you're one of my best friends and I needed to give you a hug. It's going to be fine.

LAURA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: I may be here next week.

LAURA: You might.

LIAM: I mean, do your work tomorrow. Can't we get shitfaced one last time?

ASHLEY: Let's go get shitfaced. Come on!

LAURA: Can I just - (whispers) Percy.

TALIESIN: What? Yes?

LAURA: One quick question -

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: I don't want to bother you because I know there's a lot going on, but we're going into the Feywild.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: And… I'm really nervous about this broom.

TALIESIN: (irritably) Do you see the giant mess in front of me right now?

LAURA: Yeah?

TALIESIN: This is the thing for your broom. I'm sitting here while you were drinking, working on this.

LAURA: (gasps) You were?

TALIESIN: You will put a drink aside for me.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: I will see you either later tonight, if this goes very - Actually, give me the broom. Just give me the broom.

LAURA: Okay. Well, all right, but -

TALIESIN: I will either see you later tonight, or I will see you in the morning.

LAURA: Don't lose sleep over it. Unless you really want to. But I don't want to force you into anything.

TALIESIN: This pains me. This pains me, and it must be put down. This must be put down and finished!

LAURA: Thank you, dear.

TALIESIN: Good night. I'm going to roll a tinker check, at some point.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. As you guys spend the rest of the afternoon - which, you woke up late, for the most part, so the afternoon's pretty short. But as the sun sets here in Whitestone, the cloud cover takes in once more, and a very light drizzle begins to hit the rooftops, and you hear in the distance people finishing rebuilding the roofs that were destroyed in the battle. Some buildings that are starting to be put back up again. The city is definitely, over time, coming back to life. You also know that throughout the day, you can see Allura and Gilmore and the Farseer Eskil are beginning to mark areas in the town. You're not sure what for, but you gather it's probably preparation for their wards they're going to start putting up throughout Whitestone. During this time, you make your first tinnker check.

LIAM: Roll to attach a Baby Bjorn?

LAURA: (quietly) Come on, come on.

TALIESIN: That's a 21.

MATT: 21? Okay. Working a good portion of the evening -

TALIESIN: It's not my first roll at it, so, yeah.

MATT: Yeah, you start making some decent headway. You get the stirrups well-bolted into the side, making sure not to interrupt any of the enchantment. You also begin to work on the finer elements of the seat portion of it, which in itself will have a gimbal hinge to adjust based on positioning, which will allow her to actually functionally sit on the seat. We'll get to that in a minute. The rest of you guys, anything else you're doing other than just drinking in the time you have left?

SAM: Yeah, I go to see Vex real quick.

LAURA: Me?

SAM: Yeah. Oi, you. Oi.

LAURA: Hey, what's going on?

SAM: Remember when I did you a favor, and you came to my room, and I taught you how to fly the broom?

LAURA: I very much remember that, Scanlan.

SAM: And you said you owed me one?

LAURA: I owe you so much.

SAM: Here's the payback.

LAURA: Oh, no.

SAM: You have to wear this fucking hat every time you fly.

(all laugh)

LAURA: This pointy motherfucker?

LIAM: Oh my gods.

TALIESIN: That was a long walk!

MARISHA: Such a long walk!

TALIESIN: Wow.

LIAM: Playing a long game.

LAURA: How's it look?

SAM: It looks really cool.

LAURA: Well, there you go.

(all laugh)

LAURA: I will gladly do this for you, Scanlan.

SAM: Thank you.

LAURA: Does this mean we're even? This hat makes us even?

SAM: That would make me so happy.

TALIESIN: (snorts)

LIAM: (giggling) Wow.

SAM: The debt is paid.

MATT: As she cackles loudly, the hat atop her head is everything you hoped for.

(all crack up)

SAM: Yes!

ASHLEY: Oh, Vex, that hat is amazing!

LAURA: (cackles)

TRAVIS: She's actually cackling.

LIAM: Oh, you devious motherfucker.

TALIESIN: Wow.

LAURA: I fucking like it. I appreciate it.

ASHLEY: I think it looks amazing.

SAM: The silhouette is beautiful on you.

LIAM: It's very aerodynamic.

LAURA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: (laughs) Oh my god.

LIAM: If you're going straight up.

LAURA: I would try it out, but I don't have the broom on me right now, so.

MATT: Another tinker check.

TALIESIN: (whispering) Oh, bastard.

MARISHA: (chanting) Go, go, go!

MATT: You guys are drinking, carousing in a local tavern, laughing at her new hat.

TALIESIN: That's a 25.

MATT: 25?

TALIESIN: Proficiency, dex, and roll.

MATT: As the wee hours begin to click by, the rest of you have finished your evening of drinking -

LAURA: I turn the hat at an angle and make it look a little more dashing.

MATT: There you go. Yeah, it's more stylistic. It's more Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: I like it.

TRAVIS: “Vex'ahlia.”

LIAM: Can I squeeze in one mini-conversation before the end of it all?

MATT: Yes. I'm going to start up here. As the evening progresses, up to that point in time, you're battling and battling with this gimbal, and making sure that everything itself can sustain the necessary weight without putting too much pressure on a single point within the broom to actually splinter the wood or damage the actual object. You're not even paying attention to the fact that there's very little airflow and the sweat's been dripping off of your face, as you just need to get this project done. And in the moment, it finally hits you, not knowing what time it is, but you lift it up in your hands, and you can see the completed work. Hoping it will function. We shall see. But for now, your project is done.

TALIESIN: I've got a wonderful little Elven signature on the bottom, which I will tell you what it says in just a little special signature, and I put it aside. I write down quick little notes for some stuff that's to be taken care of while we're away, and I go find the bloody bar that they have crashed.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'll take the broom.

LAURA: I hand him his drink as soon as he comes in.

TALIESIN: I hand you a broom.

ASHLEY: Percy!

LAURA: (excited shout)

TALIESIN: At the very bottom in Elven, scribed very gently with a twig, it says in Elven, “Death From Above.”

SAM: Ooh.

ASHLEY: (laughing) Oh, yes.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: Percy, you've outdone yourself.

MARISHA: You and the names.

ASHLEY: (gasps) That's amazing.

SAM: Give it a try.

LAURA: I just sit on it, raise up a little, take my hands off the broom -

MARISHA: I reach over and I grab the chicken that I'm sure is on the table, and I say, “Vex, pull!”

TALIESIN: (yelps)

MATT: Roll an attack.

LAURA: Oh, god. Do I have to roll disadvantage?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: Ha ha! That's right, and it's a 30!

(excited cheers)

MATT: The arrow smashes into the side of the half-eaten chicken, which, in your drunken state, was not on your plate, and you hear a voice go, “Hey, that was my meal!”

(arrow impact)

TALIESIN: It's a 214-year-old pub. Oh, god.

MARISHA: (weakly) Sorry!

MATT: The chicken, now stapled to the wall by the arrow, and the somewhat frustrated-looking gentleman who is on the other side of the table, who has just been eating on his own, is like - “How are you going to pay for that?”

LAURA: I'm sorry, sir. No, it's all right.

MARISHA: (stuttering)

LAURA: I fly up and I grab it off the wall and I bring it back down.

MATT: He hasn't really noticed the flight thing at this point, so he's just like, “(awed) Oh.”

MARISHA: I take my fire hands and I blacken it and make it like a nice shish kebab.

LAURA: You burned it. Thank you.

MARISHA: Just a little - I'm getting the dirt off of it. I'm getting the hair off of it.

LAURA: Sorry it's burned now, but there you go.

MARISHA: There's a little hair on it.

MATT: “It's okay.”

ASHLEY: A little extra cooked.

TALIESIN: A round for the gentleman.

MATT: “It's burned.”

LAURA: Yes. Charred. It's nice and charred.

MATT: "(weakly) Thanks."

MARISHA: I'm not a cook.

MATT: “I can tell.”

MARISHA: It's arcane fire. What do you want from me?

MATT: “I want my chicken untouched.” And he starts cutting into it, trying to find pieces that are edible.

LAURA: I land next to my brother. You wanted to talk to me. Why?

LIAM: What, you? I don't want to talk to you.

LAURA: Oh, well fuck it. I get up and start flying again.

TALIESIN: I was going to go take a seat next to Pike, at some point. I've got a letter for you.

LIAM: I think we all want to say goodbye to Pike. That's what I was going to do.

MATT: As this is happening, while the flying display is happening and you're really intent on watching all the mechanisms work and watching how it adjusts to her weight, and you want to be damn sure that everything that's supposed to move is. While this is happening…

LIAM: All right. And I sit down next to her and I scootch her a little bit. Thank you, Pickle.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Vaxy.

LIAM: I'm starting to gather that you don't have as many answers as I thought, but be that as it may, you're still a great inspiration to me. I still feel like I'm following in your footsteps.

ASHLEY: Well…

LIAM: Take that for what it's worth.

ASHLEY: Or flying in my footsteps, rather.

LIAM: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Because that's pretty cool.

LIAM: It is. It is pretty cool. Fuck, we're going to miss you.

ASHLEY: I'm going to miss you. I'm going to miss you guys very much. But maybe I'll see you more often?

LIAM: If you need us, blink of an eye. Blink of an eye, we'll come back.

ASHLEY: Okay. (sighs) Okay. And I'll just be there when I can.

LIAM: We know.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: It's going to hurt, but we know.

ASHLEY: Yeah?

LIAM: And you know that we all - all of us. That big asshole over there.

ASHLEY: That big asshole.

LIAM: My twin, with the -

LAURA: I float down behind him -

LIAM: She's behind me, isn't she?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LAURA: - and give him bunny ears behind his head.

LIAM: That one.

ASHLEY: (laughs) Hi, Vex.

LIAM: Red, Whitey, Shorty. We're all going to miss you.

ASHLEY: (sighs) I'm going to miss you guys a lot.

LIAM: Cheers.

ASHLEY: Cheers.

LIAM: (toonk)

ASHLEY: (drinking noises)

LAURA: Gulp, gulp, glub, glub, glub.

LIAM: (sighs) All right.

ASHLEY: All right.

LIAM: I'm going to tie one on. Thanks.

ASHLEY: All right. Bye, Vax.

MATT: As you continue to drink, Percy -

MARISHA: Keyleth just hollers, “Vax! Come sit by me.”

LAURA: (loudly) Oooh! I mean, go for her…

MARISHA: (yelling) Shut the fuck up, Vex!

LIAM: Or say nothing!

LAURA: Say nothing. I won't say anything. I'm just going to keep flying around.

MARISHA: That's it.

MATT: All right. As Percy, you see the opportunity now as Vax moves to take that same spot next to Pike.

TALIESIN: Oh, bloody hell, about fucking time.

LIAM: (giggles)

TALIESIN: (sighs)

ASHLEY: Hi.

TALIESIN: You're intimidating as fuck, you know that?

ASHLEY: Me?

TALIESIN: Yes.

ASHLEY: How?!

TALIESIN: Everyone's always worried about impressing you.

ASHLEY: Impressing me?

TALIESIN: Yes, it's why we're rubbish when you're not around. Everybody's trying to impress you.

ASHLEY: You know, I'm just rubbish. I'm just all the time rubbish. (laughs)

TALIESIN: I know. Believe me, I'm aware. I hand her a letter, and say, “Here's a list of every terrible thing I've got going on in this city right now.”

ASHLEY: Okay.

TALIESIN: “So you'll know what I've got cooking. Plus some people that if you need particular things, you can talk to in the city, who are friends of the family. 10 things to see in the city that might be nice, and my 10 favorite books in the library, in case you get bored.”

ASHLEY: Oh, Percy.

SAM: What to Do in Whitestone for 48 Hours.

TALIESIN: Exactly.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: You're going to have to kill some time, I'm sure.

MARISHA: Whitestone Atlas Obscura.

ASHLEY: I will make sure to visit all of these places and read all these things.

TALIESIN: I'll try and keep the kids safe, and I will try not to be the thing that kills them, either.

ASHLEY: Well - oh. I have something for you.

TALIESIN: Hm? All right.

SAM: Is it a profession of love? (laughs) Damn it!

LIAM: (laughs)

ASHLEY: When we went to my house, or, well, where I lived with Wilhand…

TALIESIN: I remember.

ASHLEY: I got something from underneath the bed, and -

LAURA: (whispering) Was it lacy panties?

ASHLEY: (laughs) Yes, it's lacy panties.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: I will wear them always.

ASHLEY: This is something that's been in my family for a really long time, and I've been thinking about it, and I feel like I need to give it to you. So come closer to me real quick. It's a necklace. And just… don't take it off.

TALIESIN: Okay. I will keep it on.

ASHLEY: And it will keep you safe.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

ASHLEY: You're welcome.

TALIESIN: And please keep all this safe, as well.

ASHLEY: I will. And keep them safe, and keep yourself safe, please?

TALIESIN: (sighs) Let's all be safe. To that.

ASHLEY: Cheers.

TALIESIN: Cheers, and god,

TALIESIN: I hope they're making out in the next hour.

ASHLEY: Same.

TALIESIN: God, wouldn't that be lovely.

LAURA: I float down and kick Grog in the head and then float back up.

TRAVIS: Ow!

MATT: Make a perception check, Grog.

TRAVIS: Shit! Six.

(all laugh)

MATT: Someone fucking threw something at your head.

TRAVIS: Who wants to go right fucking now? I was in the middle of a gorgeous cup of ale and I'm wearing half of it!

SAM: It was that guy with the burnt chicken.

TRAVIS: I rush the guy with the burnt chicken and I pick him up, and I throw him across the tavern.

MATT: “(screams)”

TRAVIS: Who's with the burnt chicken piece of shit?

MATT: He slams onto a table. You can now see there are two guys in the back, who are probably part of the building crew here, look at each other and roll up their sleeves. “We doing this?!”

ALL: YEAH!

LAURA: Big tavern brawl!

MATT: They rush in and start slugging at you and it goes into an old-style -

TALIESIN: Outside. Outside!

LAURA: Trinket!

MARISHA: Keyleth picks up two chickens, burns them with her hands, and chucks them at the guys. (shouting) Food fight!

TRAVIS: (laughing) Yes!

MATT: A giant brawl breaks out at this time.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Whole-tavern brawl.

MATT: You hear people laughing, and the music picks up more, and there's tables being tossed over. There's a hint of gingerness to it; no one's damaging the -

TRAVIS: Not the face. Not the face.

MATT: - you can see, in general, in the city, there's a lot of tension to get out from previous events, and there are a few folks in this town, in this particular tavern that are enjoying throwing a couple of punches and taking a few, and there are some folks that are watching, and enjoying watching, this fight go down.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yes! Amazing.

MATT: And while no one here can throw a punch to really give you much of an issue, Grog, it is fun to feel the energy again.

TRAVIS: Take a few, yes.

TALIESIN: Slap fight.

TRAVIS: I sell them a bit more than they're worth.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. As eventually, the fight dies down, another round of drinks are purchased by those who are involved. You all find yourselves now into the late, late hours. Once again, probably pushing another sunrise in the next hour or so. You gather you should probably find yourselves to rest.

TALIESIN: Sleep, then leave. Sleep, then leave.

ASHLEY: I give Grog a big hug and say, You're my big brother, yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Please be safe.

TRAVIS: I will. We're the original O.G., you know that?

ASHLEY: Yeah, we're the original O.G.

TRAVIS: Well, I guess original and O is redundant, but -

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Original Original G.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're the O-O-G.

ASHLEY: Oo-G. Oog.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: You guys make your way back to Whitestone castle. Find a full evening's sleep. Eventually, the late morning, early afternoon comes about. You're well-rested, and a night of good dreams come to you. In contrast to the bad night before, you do manage to get full rest.

[no audio]

LIAM: - into my sister's room with a bowl of lukewarm lentil soup, and go, “Oh, god, I'm still sick. (vomit noises)”

LAURA: No, no!

ASHLEY: (laughs)

LIAM: And throw it all over her.

LAURA: You're such an asshole.

LIAM: Whoo! Still got it, baby! And I run back to my room and go to bed.

MATT: (giggles)

LAURA: I go take a shower.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Ooh, ooh! Can I find Pike? And I say, “Hey, wait. Before I go, do you want me to keep a special eye on Scanlan, since he proposed marriage?”

ASHLEY: Oh. Well, that offer is off the table.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: Oh. It's not happening anymore.

TRAVIS: Oh.

ASHLEY: So, yeah, he's free to have some good times at the old “lady houses” that you guys like to visit. The lady spas?

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Lady spas?!

TALIESIN: Lady spas?

ASHLEY: Whorehouses?

(all laugh)

LIAM: I'd rather go to the lady spas.

ASHLEY: You know what? I think he's not quite ready. I think it was just the idea of it.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: The idea of me. Because I'm just really great.

TRAVIS: I mean, you really are.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: He got a little swept up, carried away.

ASHLEY: Yeah, he did. It happens.

TRAVIS: Is there anybody I should keep a special eye on?

(all laugh)

SAM: Yes!

TALIESIN: Wow, just -

ASHLEY: Oh. I have my eye on one already.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Like, magically?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: All right.

ASHLEY: Yeah. It's fine.

TRAVIS: You just let me know.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: I'm an extra layer of protection.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Well. Just be careful. Keep yourself safe.

TRAVIS: Me?

ASHLEY: Yeah!

TRAVIS: That's never part of the plan.

ASHLEY: Well, just don't make too crazy of decisions.

TRAVIS: All right. Hey! When I come back, those Gauntlets of Ogre Strength?

ASHLEY: Yeah?

TRAVIS: I wanna see 'em super beat up.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: Okay. We'll compare damage box.

ASHLEY: (doosh doosh doosh doosh doosh)

TRAVIS: (buuh)

LAURA: I run up behind Pike out of my shower and I twirl her around and I give you a big old hug and a kiss on the cheek.

ASHLEY: Oh. Ohh.

LAURA: We'll be back soon, darling.

ASHLEY: Okay. I hope so.

LAURA: Take care of everything.

ASHLEY: All right.

LAURA: I ought to get dressed.

ASHLEY: Yeah, will you - yeah. Okay.

(all laugh)

MATT: The flushed gnome runs off. You guys all eventually gather your materials, your weapons, your equipment, and anything else you need for the journey, and you all meet just on the outside of the front doors to Whitestone castle for a final goodbye. There waiting for you: Allura, the Realmseer, and Gilmore. Kima's off elsewhere right now. And Cassandra follows up behind as you guys step out. They all nod their heads. Allura walks over to you and pats you on the shoulder. “Don't worry. Have faith, and when you return. I'll know how to absolve you of this cursed individual. And I think you'll have, hopefully, something else even more helpful in your midst.” Cassandra comes up by you and rests her chin on your shoulder. “Percy, stay alive, please.”

TALIESIN: All right. (sighs)

MATT: “I mean it.”

TALIESIN: I know. I plan on coming back. I'm not done.

MATT: “No, you're not.” And she smacks you in the face. (dshh)

TALIESIN: (sighs) I hate you.

MATT: Once everyone else is looking, she rights herself again. She takes her coat and buttons it there in the middle. “I cannot express, truly, how important your influence has been in this city, and I don't think you realize just how many lives here are for the better since you've walked into our humble home. And it is for that reason that I request, on the behalf of all of us here in Whitestone, that you come back safe. That is all. Good luck.” She puts her shoulders back and walks back into the castle.

TALIESIN: At your service, Lord Cassandra.

MATT: “Don't call me that.”

TALIESIN: (laughs)

MATT: She walks back in.

ASHLEY: I put my shoulders back and do the same thing she does. And turn around and wave. I love you guys. (blows kiss)

MARISHA: Bye, Pike.

LAURA: Bye, Lord Pike.

TRAVIS: Bye, Pike.

ASHLEY: Bye.

LAURA AND ASHLEY: (laugh)

LIAM: Bye, Pickle.

ASHLEY: Bye, Vaxy.

MATT: Allura and Gilmore look at each other. Allura nods and walks in the castle after Pike, leaving Gilmore there. Gilmore looks at you all. “Sorry about forgetting the hug last time. It wasn't my intent.”

LAURA: (laughs) Totally fine, dear.

MATT: “I have no words. You all look fabulous. If you find anything really amazing that you don't need, I'm trying to build up stock again. (chuckling) I kind of… lost two shops in the same month."

LAURA: Are you building another shop?

MATT: "Well, I mean, eventually. "You've got to have long-term plans, my dear.”

LAURA: Of course. We'll keep promoting you, then.

MATT: “Please. I'm far beyond the adventuring business, and income's been stale for a while. But stay safe. Be careful. It's weird out there.”

SAM: (laughs)

MATT: “Very, very weird out there.”

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: So true.

MARISHA: Thank you, Gilmore.

TRAVIS: Should we - since they're all smart and stuff - ask them anything in particular about the Feywild?

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. Any last words of wisdom for the Feywild?

MATT: “It's WEIRD out there.”

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Thank you.

TRAVIS: Deep.

MARISHA: I think that was it.

MATT: “Take everything with caution. Trust nothing. Keep your eyes open and for the love of god, absolve yourself of any preconceptions.”

TRAVIS: Shit. Okay.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: “Fly high, my bird.”

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: He walks up and gives you a kiss on the cheek, and then walks into the castle after the rest.

MARISHA: Oh.

TALIESIN: (quietly) See? That wasn't so hard, was it?

MARISHA: (whispering) Hush, Percy.

LAURA: Well.

SAM: Shall we?

LAURA: Oh, god. It's happening.

MARISHA: All form a circle and hold hands.

LIAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, let's actually do it, yeah.

LAURA: Oh, it's really -

LIAM: We're really doing it.

ASHLEY: I'm not here.

LAURA: Oh, Pike's not here.

LIAM: Ready, Stubby?

LAURA: Hum - oh, yes.

MARISHA: All right, everyone. Close your eyes.

SAM: Do we have to say a magic word?

MARISHA: No. Just close your eyes. It helps -

SAM: Can we say a magic word?

MARISHA: If it makes you feel better, Scanlan.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: Close your eyes. It helps with the nausea.

TALIESIN: You could sing.

MARISHA: And -

SAM, MARISHA, AND LIAM: (gibberish noises)

(laughter)

LAURA: My pretty!

SAM: Wait, did it happen already? We're still here.

MARISHA: My pretty!

LAURA: (cackles)

MATT: Where are you specifying? Where are you going?

LIAM: (Brooklyn accent) We're going to Florida!

(cheers)

MARISHA: We're going to Disney!

TALIESIN: Harry Potter Land!

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Harry Potter Land!

TRAVIS: (laughing) Epcot Center.

MARISHA: I'm going to go to the one place I know, which is the portal just beyond where Grog entered.

MATT: You haven't been in there.

MARISHA: But I know that there's a portal there, right?

TRAVIS: There was a lake in the middle of the -

LIAM: Yeah, Grog's girlfriend.

MARISHA: Grog's girlfriend.

SAM: But we weren't in the Feywild, were we?

TRAVIS: No, no, it's a portal to the Feywild.

MARISHA: No, but I've got a vague idea.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I talk to - hang on, wait. Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Remember your girlfriend in the Feywild?

TRAVIS: Pfft. Yeah.

MARISHA: Think about her and that place very, very hard.

TRAVIS: Which part?

MARISHA: Going there.

LAURA: Oh, it's happening? It's happening. Okay, okay, okay, okay. I thought we already -

MARISHA: Think about Grog's girlfriend.

TRAVIS: Peanut butter and jelly.

LIAM: What did they do in there? We don't know, still.

MARISHA: We don't know.

SAM: Maybe we'll find out!

MATT: For a moment, there's just this still quiet, and then this very cold breeze begins to pick up around your feet (wind noise) and it's like someone smacked each of you on your back really hard (boomf). And with that, your vision flashes for a moment, and you look about and everything has changed. You step forward into the now-temperate air. You're struck immediately by the vibrant purples, blues, and pinks of a sunset sky that envelops the clouds above you, just above the treeline that surrounds you. The smell of fresh morning dew and poppy upon the breeze rolls past your nose and fills your senses as you look down and see yourself wading through what looks like two-foot-tall, knee- to thigh-high grass. Vine-covered tree trunks wrap and rise around you, curling as they stretch upward like a bending dreamscape of hundreds of small bobbing fairy lights that float in the shadowed distance of the forest. You can see what looks to be a few small pools of water that have gathered in this small glade that surrounds you. And that's where we'll pick up next week.

ASHLEY: Oh.

LAURA: It sounds beautiful.

MATT: Or two weeks from now, I guess.

LAURA: Oh, man, that's right.

ASHLEY: Boo.

TRAVIS: But we'll be back. We'll do stuff next week.

MATT: You guys'll be back next week for your own little fun time.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll do something.

MATT: We'll be back to pick up that line, as the party enters the Feywild, in two weeks.

TALIESIN: Man.

SAM: Who knows what we'll encounter.

MATT: It's going to be real interesting here in the Feywild. All right, so first and foremost, thanks again to Loot Crate for being our awesome sponsors.

TRAVIS: We're wearing these awesome shirts. Keyleth's got one. I'm rocking -

MARISHA: Yeah, everyone's been tweeting at me, asking “where did you get your awesome shirt?” Uh, LOOT CRATE, what.

ASHLEY: Loot Crate!

TRAVIS: Alex Murphy, RoboCop, holla.

LIAM: And our discount!

MATT: And Ashley, if you hadn't picked up at this point, is going back to New York to shoot on the next season of Blindspot.

LIAM: No! No!

LAURA: Oh, no…

ASHLEY: Okay, wait, hold on a second.

SAM: Wait, what does she have?

ASHLEY: Guys, for those of you in the Critter community who made this amazing quilt. This is going to come with me and be on my bed, and I'll snuggle it.

MARISHA: Oh my god, that's amazing!

LAURA: They made her the most amazing quilt!

ASHLEY: I love this so much.

SAM: Is that a Pike quilt?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LIAM: Yes, it is.

LAURA: And it's got art.

ASHLEY: It has all the art on it - and then on the sides it's just little quotes and things.

TRAVIS: Aim long, strike true, a War God's Blessing upon you.

ASHLEY: People wrote on Twitter

LAURA: It's so amazing.

MARISHA: That's amazing!

TRAVIS: So many good messages.

ASHLEY: Never stop being yourself. You empower others to be themselves - oh, okay, now I'm just reading, like -

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: I thought it was going to be - I wasn't trying to read compliments about myself.

(all laugh)

MATT: I love this blanket. It tells me how awesome I am.

TRAVIS: I like your hair!

LAURA: I'm pretty awesome.

ASHLEY: Your hair's great! I love it.

LIAM: Us pack of nerds are going to miss you more than Vox Machina misses Pike.

ASHLEY: Oh, goodness.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah.

LIAM: We're going to miss you.

ASHLEY: I'm going to miss you guys so much.

TRAVIS: We're going to steal you back whenever we can.

MATT: We got better internet in the studio for you.

LAURA: Yeah, it's true.

ASHLEY: What's he say, again?

MATT: We got better internet in the studio specifically for you.

LAURA: So it'll be faster.

ASHLEY: Okay. All right.

MATT: When you can, Skype in.

ASHLEY: All right. When I can, Skype in.

MATT: I know it's not the same.

ASHLEY: Astral projection Pike. (laughs)

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yeah.

LAURA: No, no, no, you have the stone. You'll be really there.

ASHLEY: Oh, I'll be really there. That's right. That's right. Yes. We're going to make it work.

MATT: I'll make it work.

ASHLEY: Matt will have to make it -

MATT: I'll figure it out. It's my job.

LIAM: Pike in a box is better than no Pike.

MATT, TALIESIN, AND MARISHA: (singing) It's a Pike in a box, ooh.

ASHLEY: It's a Pike in a box!

MATT, MARISHA, TALIESIN, AND LAURA: (singing) Pike in a box, baaabe.

(singing peters out)

MATT: (singing) Step one, put a hole in that box… put a Pike in that box?

MARISHA: Oh, god!

MATT: Not continuing the song…

(all laugh)

MATT: Guys, thank you so much for watching. I hope you enjoyed your time. Looking forward to seeing all you folks in Australia next week. It's going to be awesome. We'll see you guys Saturday night. I believe it'll be Taliesin, Marisha -

MARISHA AND TALIESIN: Not Taliesin.

MATT: Not Taliesin, sorry. Liam, Marisha, Laura, and Travis are going to play some Deadlands for a couple of hours on our awesome charity stream. Check us out tomorrow, starting at 5pm. Check out the rest of the stream for all the awesome content they're putting up there, guys.

ALL: Saturday.

MATT: Sorry. Saturday. Friday. It's -

TALIESIN: It technically is tomorrow.

MATT: No, it's not tomorrow yet. Sorry. Starts tomorrow at 7pm, or 5pm. It starts tomorrow at 7pm, and then goes on.

LUCAS: Starts tomorrow at 7pm!

MATT: Thank you. Tomorrow at 7pm. It goes until Saturday at 7pm. My apologies. I've had a lot on my mind today. But yeah. So we'll see you guys throughout the stream. Until then, is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys. 

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. You may notice Ashley Johnson left us last week to go shoot in New York and shooting got delayed a week.

ASHLEY: Here I am! Well, hey, guys!

LAURA: Astral projection!

MATT: Pike's gone, but she at least can sit there while you guys play, which will be fun.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I just came to hang out.

MATT: Yeah, that's cool, I appreciate and respect that. Thank you guys for your patience with the tech issues, we're trying out some new arrangements here and it took a little setup. Nevertheless, we are good to go. Before we jump into tonight's game, let's go ahead and get through our announcements. First and foremost, Loot Crate has been our fantastic sponsor, and they currently are unveiling their July theme: Futuristic! Which is pretty rad. They have a bunch of things from Rick and Morty, Futurama, Megaman, Valiant Comics, and Star Trek. Then they have a figure in there, they also have their monthly t-shirt and pin, all that cool stuff coming up, and we have the Loot Anime July theme of Squadron as well! Which includes a bunch of Gundam, Gate, Arpeggio Blue Steel, Anti-Magic Academy stuff, an exclusive loot to the anime box. Both of these are their current themes for July. If you want to sign up to Loot Crate to get these and be awesome and keep our sponsors happy, you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole, and there you can go ahead and sign up for a $3 a month discount by putting in the special code criticalrole, one word, into your subscription.

ASHLEY: It's the best.

LAURA: Do we get to do this? We haven't opened any of these yet.

SAM: Loot Anime? Wait, we all have to have anime reactions to these.

MATT: Okay, ready. Ready?

TRAVIS: One, two, three.

(anime reactions)

LAURA: Oh, this is super cool!

SAM: This is definitely a Captain America shirt.

MATT: I was going to say Homestar Runner.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Biggest Dragon Ball Z fan in the world.

MARISHA: It's Super Saiyan Goku! That's pretty great! He's got gold hair.

TALIESIN: Boy and little Chiko! I'm going to put it on my head.

TRAVIS: Fullmetal Alchemist transmutation circle!

LAURA: We may or may not do voices in Fullmetal Alchemist and Dragon Ball Z.

ASHLEY: Full circle!

MATT: You got a cool poster!

LAURA: You got a poster? Oh, there is a poster! Oh, and little cell phone charms!

MATT: Yeah, these are from Unity. These are little feather charms from Unity.

LIAM: Can someone save me a Loot Crate box?

TRAVIS: Shut up, Liam. You're not here!

LAURA: Sorry Liam, you're missing out. I'll save you a cell phone charm.

MATT: So we got an awesome Yokai shirt.

ASHLEY: They're like little best friend charms.

MARISHA: Yeah, they're like best friend charms.

LAURA: And they're feathers! Actually, Liam, these are really appropriate. They're feathers. I'll save you one!

TRAVIS: This is going in the kitchen in front of the sink. I'm going to stand on it and transmute my dishes into clean.

ASHLEY: I love this little plush.

TALIESIN: Most useful alchemist ever.

MARISHA: Yay! Thanks, Loot Crate!

MATT: Thank you, Loot Crate. Check it out, if it's something you want to be part of, they send this stuff monthly, themed crates are awesome, we've been at this for a long time.

LAURA: I didn't even know they had an Anime Loot Crate. That's pretty cool.

MATT: And now you do, Laura. What!

ASHLEY: (singing) The more you know!

MATT: Awesome. So once again, that's criticalrole, one word, on their website at lootcrate.com/criticalrole to get your discount for being Critters and awesome. We have, also, Laura?

LAURA: Oh, the t-shirt competition! Okay. So we have officially selected the top three of our choosing, and then we are now presenting them to you guys to vote on. They are already up on geekandsundry.com, so go and check them out and make your votes heard, and we're going to be announcing the actual winner of the t-shirt competition at our live show next week, so everybody that comes and sees that will get to see a picture of it live. Just like you guys at home.

TRAVIS: What a goober.

MARISHA: You basically see it 30 seconds before everyone else.

LAURA: That 30 seconds makes a huge difference.

MARISHA: It does.

TALIESIN: We may be miming something while the picture's up, and that'll be exclusive content.

ASHLEY: And there were so many good ones. It was so hard.

LAURA: The amount of texts that went back and forth between all of us, trying to decide what the top three were going to be, was really–

MARISHA: It was like, okay, everybody pick your top three, and so we each picked six. And they were all different. And we're like, cool.

TRAVIS: Which brings us to our next announcement, which is we do have a live show next week!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: We're going be at Landmark Theatres. It's a sold-out show, somehow, because everybody's crazy and is coming to see it. We're going to be there, in person, trying to pull off this live show thing. It's going to be wacky, it's going to be zany. We're not going to have any clothes on.

LAURA: No, that's not true.

MATT: You are welcome to come clothed.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna sit in a sock, and that's it.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Travis, it's already sold out, you don't have to–

TRAVIS: It's the first of hopefully many, so we'll see how it goes.

MATT: Yeah, if it goes well and runs smoothly and people are receptive to it, then hopefully there will be more of these at different places over the country.

SAM: Guys, one more quick announcement, over here on the cool table. Joe Mad posters. You know them, you love them, they're up on shop.geekandsundry.com. It's your last chance to preorder the unsigned limited edition Critical Role poster. The poster size: it's not 23 by 35, it's 24 by 36. We went the extra inch for you guys. These posters will be removed from the website and deleted forever tomorrow at 1:00pm Pacific. The cost is $40. Go buy it now. Sorry, Taliesin. Let me try that again.

TRAVIS: We must reiterate, they are gorgeous. You will want one of these for you or your friends.

TALIESIN: Trust Scanlan. It's that extra inch that makes all the difference.

SAM: It's the extra inch, cubed.

MATT: All right. Any other announcements anyone wants to bring forward? I know Technomancer just came out. I voice Sean Mancer in that.

MARISHA: What just came out?

MATT: Technomancer.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Oh, cool.

MATT: A game. It's a game. Anybody else have anything?

SAM: That's a very half-hearted plug, Matt.

MATT: I just want to get in the game. It's a thing. There's stuff in it. Yeah, I'm a little jet-lagged. But that doesn't matter, because that's what energy drinks are for. All right guys, let's dive in here to the proper part of tonight's episode of Critical Role.

TALIESIN: Opening credits!
Part I

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back! So we had a week off last week where the amazing Liam O'Brien there ran a one-shot game of absolute chaos and did an amazing job.

LAURA: It was pretty fun.

MATT: If you guys haven't had an opportunity to check it out, you should. It's up on geekandsundry.com. It's amazing, and made me and Marisha very jealous that we couldn't play it, but we were here in spirit, and obviously, motorcycle and sidecar. So that was fun. We'll show you some of the fanart. But anyway, back to this game. Vox Machina, the group of adventurers who had found their way now seeking the Vestiges of Divergence, ancient artifacts of power, to help them in their struggle against the Chroma Conclave, the collection of chromatic dragons that have razed the entire countryside of Tal'Dorei. They've acquired a few of them, but the most recent one sends them to the Feywild in search of Fenthras, a bow which seems to have acquired the eyes of Vex upon it. You took care of some business, managed to ward off an assassination attempt by a rakshasa, and found your way through Keyleth's Plane Shift spell into the Feywild, somewhere in the vicinity of the portal where the nymph in the Frostweald, upon meeting Vox Machina years before, supposedly lives.

LAURA: Oh shit, Grog.

ASHLEY: Time to get some… tail. I was going to say something else and then I realized– Not sure where that came from.

MATT: So to bring us back in. As you step out into the temperate air, you're struck by the vibrant purples, blues and pinks of sunset that envelop the skies and the clouds above the tree line. The smell of fresh morning dew and poppy upon the breeze fills your head, and your feet wade through tall, thick grasses that tickle your knees with each step. Vine-covered tree trunks rise all around you, curling as they stretch upward like a bending dreamscape, and hundreds of small, bobbing faerie lights glow in the shadowed distance of the forest. Looking about you, you can see what appear to be clusters of mud and small pools of water that are scattered in your vicinity, some ten, 15, even 30 feet apart. Small, little pools that dot the landscape almost like pebbles scattered across a small field. What do you guys want to do?

LAURA: Already?

SAM: Where are we?

MARISHA: It's beautiful.

TRAVIS: I feel like we got drugged.

TALIESIN: This is fantastic.

TRAVIS: Is anyone else seeing the colors and the shapes and the–

TALIESIN: Oh, it's everything I could have hoped for.

MARISHA: I want to live here. It's amazing. Okay.

LAURA: Well, I have no idea how to get our bearings here, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Well. Is there any sign of any bit of civilization or construction?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Oh lord.

TRAVIS: First roll of the day. Don't fuck it up.

TALIESIN: Ah! Yay. 26.

MATT: 26, okay. As you guys are taking in the vicinity, Percy, glancing around, you see no signs of civilization. The only thing that catches your eye is a little ways past the immediate tree line, that meets your eye, the fairy lights seem to be caressing the outside of some sort of older stone structure. And that's about as much as you can make out. Looks about four or five feet tall, and it's only barely visible between two of the trunks.

TALIESIN: I think I see a thing. I'm heading in that direction.

MARISHA: Oh! I want to go see a thing. I want to go! I take off after Percy.

TRAVIS: We can always let them go first and they die, and then we go.

LAURA: Perhaps it might be wise to move quietly.

TALIESIN: We are already going.

LAURA: Brilliant.

LIAM: You remember what our teachers said of this place. It's pretty, but it's dangerous.

LAURA: It's very dangerous, and I'm afraid they don't understand.

MARISHA: Guys, look! They're fireflies!

TALIESIN: Wait, don't touch. Don't touch. We're going to head towards the stone.

MATT: Okay. You make your way across these extremely thick, moss-covered tree trunks. You push past the two and eventually come upon the structure, and as you get closer, the fairy lights dim and vanish, as soon as you get within five or six feet of them, and they seem to only appear at a peripheral point. You guys approach the stone structure?

LIAM: Do Vex and I have memories of these from our tutoring in Elftown?

MATT: Not particularly. Nothing about it strikes you as part of the general Feywild lore. There are structures that have been built throughout periods of time, some of which have fallen to ruin. Nature in the Feywild tends to reclaim things that aren't natural if left to their own devices.

LIAM: But the lights, we never heard anything about those lights?

LAURA: (whispering) Will-o'-wisps.

LIAM: Well, Liam knows that, but I'm asking if Vax does.

MATT: I would say, have both of you guys roll history checks, for the both of you. Vex and Vax.

TALIESIN: Can I add into that, too?

MATT: You would not.

TALIESIN: I learned Elven. I was a bit of a nerd.

MATT: You learned Elven, but elven culture and the Feywild are two entirely different things.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm aware my head's full of bullshit, too.

LAURA: 20.

LIAM: Just a 13.

MATT: 13, okay. Best that you can ascertain, the first worry initially, and you have encountered something like this before: will-o'-wisps, entities that were the lost souls of individuals that died under tragic circumstances in swamps and bogs and in heavily wooded areas. However, those entities are usually larger and are drawn towards sources of life. The fact that these are much smaller and tend to fade at your arrival means either they're not will-o'-wisps at all, or a different kind you haven't encountered. That's as much information that you can deal with.

LIAM: I wonder if they're fairy folk.

LAURA: Maybe.

TALIESIN: Now, don't touch. We'll stay 11 paces away.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: I'd like you both to make stealth checks if you could.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Anybody else going up with them, or is just the two of them?

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck those pieces of bait.

LAURA: Can I climb a tree? Close by.

MATT: Make an athletics check.

LAURA: Athletics. Can I use my acrobatics to hop up? Ooh! Swing myself? Parkour?

MATT: Roll athletics with disadvantage, just because I'm giving you a chance.

LAURA: Acrobatics, with disadvantage?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: 24.

MATT: Okay. This is the one time you've bartered with the DM this session.

LAURA: Oh no! I should've saved it!

MATT: You do manage to leap across. Because these trees are thickly wooded and the branch line starts at about the four-foot mark anyway, it's fairly easy for you to leap up the top of the tree without an issue. You vanish up into the canopy. You two, what'd you roll for stealth?

MARISHA: A 20.

TALIESIN: And a 12.

MATT: And Liam, what'd you get?

LIAM: I didn't roll anything. I just wanted to call out: you couldn't have used the broom for that?

LAURA: (laughs) Nope!

TALIESIN: And we're keeping about 11 feet, so. At least.

MATT: 11 feet, okay. You approach this stone structure, which you see now is the corner part of a wall. It looks like there was some sort of a small structure here. Best that you can make out, all of it's heavily covered with vine and ivy, and all the places where the stonework is broken looks to be through natural erosion or claimed by actual roots, and you can see now part of the tree roots have actually risen up and tore down elements of these walls, and you can see broken rubble barely poking through the very thick underbrush of this forest. Whatever was here was built a long time ago and has been mostly reclaimed by the forest.

TALIESIN: Inner corner or outer corner?

MATT: The corner is facing you guys, so you're on the outside of where the structure would have been.

MARISHA: It's a ruin? Or are there walls that continue on?

MATT: This is a ruin, but most of it's been torn down and it's not visible. Sections of walls available. The largest piece is currently the corner you're facing.

MARISHA: Interesting.

TALIESIN: Go ahead. I'm going to sit and quietly sketch for a moment. I'm taking everything down.

MARISHA: Can I do a check to see if I can recognize who might've built this stone structure?

MATT: Make a history check.

MARISHA: Ten.

MATT: You have no idea. The planes you've studied are the planes of the elemental form. The Feywild is a little ways outside of your realm of any training or storytime you've been given growing up. Most of what you've gleaned about it thus far has been based on the conversations you've had in recent weeks.

TRAVIS: Are there a lot of pastel colors all over the place?

MATT: It ranges from, at least in this forest, a very deep lush dark green, like a heavy winter's pine green. The forests are more vine-wrapped, mossy, willow-ish trees that hang down.

TRAVIS: Okay, so not crazy LSD colors going.

MATT: No. However, the evening sky is very purple and orange, like around a very bright dusk. And that colorscape does contrast with the green of the forest quite beautifully.

TRAVIS: Is it dusk?

MATT: It looks to be getting to dusk, yeah.

TALIESIN: It may or may not be.

TRAVIS: What does that mean?

LAURA: Time is different in the Feywild.

TALIESIN: So there's no carvings that I can see on this outer wall, nothing?

MATT: Not from ten feet away, no.

TALIESIN: And the vines that are climbing on it, are they flowering anything at all?

MATT: The vines that are there do have small whitish flower buds. Little flowers that have been blooming in a small scale across the vines.

MARISHA: Do they look like anything that we have on our plane?

MATT: Not particularly. They look like white flowers from this distance. You'd have to get closer to inspect directly.

MARISHA: Can I do that?

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: Be very careful. Nothing here is exactly what it appears to be.

MARISHA: I won't touch it! I'm going to– it's so pretty.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia!

LAURA: What? Yes?

LIAM: Do you want to go higher and get a bird's eye view? Maybe that's not safe, but–

LAURA: That's why I'm staying in the trees, brother.

LIAM: I meant even higher.

LAURA: I will if it looks safe.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Does it look safe?

MATT: The canopy is very thick, and only in these small little patches of meadow, like the one that you entered and had all the little pools in it, and the one that you're entering now which has the ruin, have little breaks in the canopy where you can actually see the sky. Otherwise, it's very thick, so actually flying through the canopy, unless you're going very slowly, is going to be whipping you and probably knocking you off.

LAURA: Can I see from my height, can I see a better view of the ruins and everything?

MATT: You can make your way up there a little bit. Make a perception check. Keyleth, you approach the ruin to get a closer look at the plants? Make a nature check.

LAURA: Oh! And this is forest, right?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Oh!

MARISHA: 30.

MATT: Okay. These white flowers resemble a form of daisy that exists in Tal'Dorei. However, they grow there in flower clusters out of the ground. You've never seen them sprout from a vine, and the shape's a little different, and you don't actually know this form of plant from your personal experience, but you can ascertain a similar nature to it.

TRAVIS: Nothing is what it seems.

MARISHA: A “feysy.” Are they poisonous or anything like that?

MATT: They don't appear to be toxic, no.

MARISHA: Can I touch it?

MATT: As you reach out and touch it with your finger, I need you to go ahead and do nothing, because it's fine.

LAURA: You sneaky. Here we go.

TRAVIS: “As you” always means doom.

LAURA: I got 25 on my perception.

MATT: Okay. As you rocket up past the boughs and begin to emerge from the edge of the canopy over this opening, you do see a very large water pool on the other side of this ruin. You can see where this ruin used to be. Most of it has fallen and then sunken into what appears to be a very glassy pool of water. A still surface, untouched. There's no wind in this area. It's a perfectly reflective surface to the opening above it.

LAURA: Do I see any life forms around?

MATT: You don't see any life forms. You do see a bare minimum hint of movement, if you will, beneath the water. You can't make out the shape, but you do see something moving beneath the water.

LAURA: Does this look similar to the pool that was on the other side of the portal?

MATT: It's a pool.

LAURA: I wouldn't know?

MATT: It looks like water. And you've seen a number that you've come past in this way. This one's larger than the others.

MARISHA: I want to pick the little white flower.

TALIESIN: Oh, I wouldn't do that!

LAURA: I come down and I watch as Keyleth makes a stupid move. Don't pick anything.

MATT: You pluck the flower. As you pluck it, the vines begin to writhe and pull away from the stone, actually releasing the hold on the ruin, and as it does, you hear what sounds like some movement, some shifting of water on the other side of the stone wall.

LAURA: There was something in the water on the other side of the ruins.

MARISHA: I take the flower and I put it back.

MATT: The vine has retracted, and as you set it towards the vine, it tumbles off. And actually the flower, you see now as you reach down, it has turned from a beautiful white and has immediately withered into a black, dried husk.

TRAVIS: Wow. We've been here five minutes.

MARISHA: I was going to press it and keep it.

LAURA: I'm not lying. We should probably hide!

MATT: Where was once silence, you hear the rushing of leaves as the canopy's beginning to close over, like the trees are leaning in and the actual branches themselves are starting to close up the gap in space on the sky.

LIAM: I'm going stealth! Ducking into the grass!

MATT: Stealth check on both you guys.

SAM: I'm hanging back with Grog. I've been scratching my back on his knee for a while.

TRAVIS: I don't see what the big deal is, really.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 34.

MATT: Okay. Both of you guys– you go back into the branch, and you can feel the branches pushing behind you, and you have to actually get low to not be dragged away with the rest of these extending branches that are closing off the opening in the canopy. Vax, you make your way towards one of the tree trunks and dart out of the way. Percy, you're watching this in horror.

TALIESIN: I'm trying to very gently back her up.

MATT: Okay. It's at this point, you guys see a hand creep up over the stone. A secondary hand.

MARISHA: Maybe it's his version of a doorbell. You pick a plant and you get–

MATT: Pulling up from here, you now see what appears to be a humanoid female form, lithe, hair wet and slicked back, and as the head peeks over–

TALIESIN: I bow. And I push her down.

MATT: Okay. The moment there is any movement, she flickers and moves back from the wall, looking already very perturbed by this whole circumstance. I need both of you guys to make constitution saving throws.

MARISHA: Oh, not bad. 21.

TALIESIN: Natural one.

MATT: Natural one. As you're shoved ahead, and begin to go into a bow, Percy, you bow, but you can't take your eyes off of it as the creature pulls herself up over the wall. An extremely beautiful, impossibly beautiful woman, nude, steps up over the edge of the wall, and as you glance forward, everything goes dark. Blackness.

MARISHA: Is he still conscious?

MATT: You bow, and he appears to be bowing. He's still standing; he's fine.

TALIESIN: Hello?

MATT: As soon as you say that, the creature darts backward, and you see it take a few steps and then leap and dives into the pool and vanishes beneath the water's surface. Although you see that, Keyleth. Percy, you do not. You just hear footsteps.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

LAURA: What happened?

TALIESIN: We're going to have to find her.

LAURA: Did she say anything?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: She was very pretty. Are you okay?

TALIESIN: I think she blinded me. No, she blinded me.

MATT: And you look at Percy, eyes wide open, glancing about, the pupils moving about.

TALIESIN: Yes, I'm blinded. I'm blind.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: We should test it out.

TRAVIS: Yeah. How many fingers am I holding up?

TALIESIN: One.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: He's a liar! He can see fine. Piece of shit.

LAURA: Grog! Did you recognize that woman?

MATT: Were you paying attention?

TRAVIS: No.

(laughter)

LAURA: You didn't see the naked woman come up over that wall?

TRAVIS: Where? Hold on. Did you hear that?

SAM: If there was a naked woman, I would have seen it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to curl up in a little ball for a minute and rock.

MATT: Okay. Percy crawls onto the ground and begins rocking back and forth.

LAURA: I come down out of the tree. Can you just be quiet for two seconds?

MARISHA: Maybe it'll wear off in a minute?

LAURA: (shushing) Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: There was a naked woman. In a pool.

SAM: Go on.

LAURA: That reminded me of maybe the pool on the other side. We were jumping over from close to that portal, right? Could it be the nymph that you stole the heart of?

MARISHA: She was very pretty.

TRAVIS: I don't know. Maybe.

LAURA: Would it be safe for you to see her again and maybe ask for her to cure our friend here or would you– Is she dangerous to be around?

TRAVIS: Well, she didn't blind me.

LAURA: What'd she do to you?

TRAVIS: That's none of your business.

LAURA: Well, I worry if we go try to talk to her if it's not her, then she could blind all of us.

TRAVIS: I don't know. My chick didn't blind me, so if she did, I think we need to kill her.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take out my Dragonslayer Longsword and stand up and start using it as a cane. Find my way to Grog and poke him with it.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Better. That's 18.

MATT: Okay. As they're having this conversation, you–

TALIESIN: Just a tap.

MATT: You find your way over, and sure enough, no person has the leg density that Grog does, and you're pretty sure you have your mark.

TALIESIN: Going to give it a good little whack. Oh, I'm sorry! It's so hard to see.

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, I need to be more sensitive– look out, it's a parrot! And I kick the sword.

MARISHA: A parrot?

TRAVIS: Yeah, there are rabid parrots out here in the Feywild.

SAM: He kicked the sword.

TRAVIS: Oh, you know what? Just go pick it up.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Let me get it for you. I'll hold onto it, since you're obviously useless now. I go pick up the Dragonslayer Longsword.

LIAM: I walk over to Percival. Percival, I'm worried you're going to walk your glasses into a tree or something. Do you want one of us to hold those for the time being?

TALIESIN: I'll take them off and put them in my pocket.

LIAM: Do you have something to put them inside of, besides just the pocket? I don't want you falling on them.

TALIESIN: No. I've got a thing. It'll be all right.

LAURA: Percival, would you like something to hold onto as you walk?

TALIESIN: Actually, if you don't mind, can I borrow a bear? Yes.

LAURA: Yes, of course. I pop Trinket out.

MATT: Okay. Trinket. (whoosh, bear noises)

LAURA: Hi, buddy!

MATT: Jowls shake as you rub your fingers into his fur.

LAURA: Trinket, we're in a very weird place. A weird place. Things can happen.

MARISHA: And I whisper to Trinket: don't crush the flowers.

TALIESIN: I'm willing to try and make this work for a moment.

LAURA: Trinket, can you help Percival walk? He's blind.

LIAM: Matt! Pike is with us, right?

MATT: No.

LIAM: No? Okay.

LAURA: She's back in Whitestone.

LIAM: All right. I robot out once in a while on Skype. I guess I missed that.

MATT: That's okay. All right, so you feel the somewhat damp, cold nose of a bear nudge under your hand, and then (bear noises) and a shoulder lunges into you.

LAURA: Now don't walk him into any trees, Trinket dear.

TALIESIN: Do you mind? I'm going to try and hop on top. I'm going to make a leap to get on top of the bear.

MATT: Okay. It takes you a little while, but you get up onto the bear eventually. You have to right him because he's facing the wrong direction a little.

TRAVIS: All right. So wait, can we be clear? You picked a flower, all the trees got pissed off, you went blind, some naked chick jumped a wall, and that's the story of what's happened so far? We are killing it right now.

LAURA: Don't touch anything.

TRAVIS: I feel like maybe we need a change in leadership. Just saying.

MARISHA: There are very large consequences for picking flowers.

SAM: All right, which way did she go?

LAURA: She jumped over the wall here.

SAM: Should we follow?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Vax? Can you get a pair of eyes on her without going blind?

LIAM: I don't feel confident about that.

LAURA: I can try.

TALIESIN: Which direction was this pool?

LAURA: It's right past the ruins. Right there, darling, can't you see? Grog, do you want to give it a go?

TRAVIS: What? Go look for her?

LAURA: Just go see if it's her?

TRAVIS: All right. Fuck it.

LAURA: Be quiet– okay.

TRAVIS: No. And I do a full vault over the wall.

MATT: You land, feet go (squelch) into the muddy outskirts of the pond. It's about up to your ankles, but you can see the water is now rippled and disturbed.

TRAVIS: Can I stick my fingers in the mud. Does it smell weird?

MATT: Smells like probably the freshest poolside mud you've ever come across.

TRAVIS: I wipe it across my chest. Do I see any footprints from where naked chick went?

MATT: No, none.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: She went in the water, Grog.

TRAVIS: She left no traces!

LAURA: She was in the water before.

TRAVIS: Does anyone want to come with me to the water?

LAURA: I'll come with you to the water.

TALIESIN: I'll go with you.

TRAVIS: You're not going anywhere!

TALIESIN: Trinket!

MARISHA: I'll go get your eyes back! Okay.

TRAVIS: All right. I cautiously make my way down. How far is the water? Can I see it from where I am now?

MATT: Yeah. It's about maybe ten feet from you.

TRAVIS: All right, I'll stealthily make my way ten feet towards it.

MATT: Roll a stealth check.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

MATT: You put it in the descriptor, man.

TRAVIS: I did. 17.

MATT: Okay. (squelching) You make your way, as markedly quiet as you can.

MARISHA: I'm going to sit on the wall and watch for a second.

MATT: Okay. You come up to the edge of the water, and you can see some of the ripples are starting to lap across the mud. The mud and silt continues downward into a perfectly clear pool, though the light source has been cut off from the sky now as the canopy has closed, and what little bit of light happens to find its way through the forest ceiling– other than that, it's pretty dark. However, you do have darkvision; a few of you do have darkvision, so it's not a huge hindrance within a certain distance. You do see what appears to be clouds of silt on the bottom of the water that have slowly found their way close to resting.

TRAVIS: Can I call out: hello? Nothing?

MATT: No immediate response, no.

TRAVIS: Can I reach in the Bag of Holding and grab a basilisk egg? And can I try to launch it as far as I can into the pool?

MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and make a strength check.

LIAM: I'm going to scramble up next to Keyleth to watch this.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23. You lob the egg with perfect accuracy directly into the center of the pool. It hits and floats on the surface, semi-buoyant, with a little bit of the shell revealed on the top. A few moments pass before a few fingers curl up and grab it, and pull it down below.

TRAVIS: Oh! I saw a hand!

SAM: Did you recognize the hand?

TRAVIS: No, I'm not like Ray Charles. I can't tell if someone's attractive just by their hands.

MARISHA: Grog. Do you know how to float? Do you know how to float on top of water?

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MARISHA: You should do that.

TRAVIS: You want me to put my body in there?

MARISHA: Right. Don't we want to talk to her?

TRAVIS: What if there's more than one her?

LIAM: It went really well for you the last time that this happened.

MARISHA: Yeah! I figured it went well for you the last time. You're the only one who's done this before.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but there were these invisible steps, right? I feel like we walked up some steps and then there was a portal. And she came out first! It wasn't like I went to her apartment and I was like: Hey! Want to hook up?

LAURA: Hey. Does this look like the pool you came into on the other side?

TRAVIS: Does this look like the pool I came into on the other side?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: You were distracted for the brief time you spent over here, but it does appear to be similar.

TRAVIS: Similar?

LAURA: Remember her name?

TRAVIS: No! Did she have a name? Her name was Nymph!

SAM: Why don't you call out her name?

TRAVIS: O Nymph! Where thee art thou?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Oh shit! Seven.

MATT: You watch as suddenly there's a burst of bubbles under the surface of the water.

LAURA: Scanlan! Whisper to Grog what to say to draw a lady out. You're very charismatic. And repeat what you hear Scanlan say.

TRAVIS: Okay. Well, you've got to come closer, though.

LAURA: Use your earring!

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we got earrings.

MARISHA and ASHLEY: Cyrano de Bergerac!

ASHLEY: Cyrano that shit.

SAM: O Nymph! Hear my call!

TRAVIS: O Nymph! Hear my ball!

SAM: Nope, call.

TRAVIS: Call!

SAM: Once, we spent an afternoon together.

TRAVIS: Once, we spent an afternoon together.

SAM: The sun never shone brighter.

TRAVIS: The sun never shone brighter!

SAM: The clouds were never quite as fluffy.

TRAVIS: The clouds were never quite as fluffy!

SAM: Oh, it would make me a man again to see you once more.

TRAVIS: Oh. That was too much.

SAM and TRAVIS: Oh! It would make me a man again to see you once more! I have a small dick.

MATT: Another burst of bubbles comes up on the surface as the water begins to break, and you can see a very beautiful, water-covered nude female form that is laughing uproariously in the pool. (laughs) “Oh. It has been some time.”

(gasping)

SAM: It's her!

MATT: And she takes her hair off to the side and gets the water out of it and shoves it over her shoulder. She steps up, and this time her feet touch the surface, and she walks on it like it's solid. As she begins to step carefully towards you, “I apologize for being, well–” And she points over towards him. “I would recommend in the future, perhaps, a more respectful means of arrival.”

MARISHA: (stage whisper) Sorry!

MATT: “If I recall, your name was Grog, is that correct?”

TRAVIS: That's right, my lady. Forgive me, your beauty has wiped my mind. Your name was?

MATT: “Nahla.”

TRAVIS: Nahla. I shan't forget again.

MATT: “I watch over this glade. It is bound to me as I am to it. I would hope that in the future you'd be more gentle with that that resides here.”

MARISHA: Sorry. I'm a huge fan is all. Hi. I'm Keyleth, by the way. Of the Air Ashari–

MATT: As you're talking at this moment, there's a sudden sparking sound, like a heavy log has fallen in a forest with a crack and a thoom. There's a flash of light and she instinctively turns and then dives beneath the water once more. As you guys glance over, there's a somewhat shimmering form of light that congeals into a small gnomish female flickering in and out. As Pike, after coming back from your goodbyes and walking to the temple of Pelor now constructed to take at least a moment to begin building a bastion for Sarenrae worship here, as well, you miss your friends so hard in that moment that, for a brief moment, the divine energies give you one last brief moment to walk beside them across the planes.

LAURA: Pike! It's been five fucking minutes.

ASHLEY: Don't we have a gatestone? I'm sorry! I didn't want to stay.

SAM: Is it because I owe you two gold?

ASHLEY: Yes!

SAM: Okay, here it is!

ASHLEY: Okay, bye!

TRAVIS: Buddy!

ASHLEY: Hi, buddy!

TRAVIS: What the fuck did you just do?

LAURA: You missed the naked chick! There's a naked chick. She blinded Percival with her beauty.

ASHLEY: Oh, wow. Well maybe we can take it. Where is she?

TRAVIS: Yeah, she went back underwater. Wait, do me a favor. Look, maybe everybody take a knee and be real chill while I throw down this swag, all right?

ASHLEY: Sorry. Did I come in at a bad time?

SAM: Well, you cockblocked Grog a little bit.

ASHLEY: I'm sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: I was on fleek and now I'm on flock.

ASHLEY: Oh no. Well, let's fix it. I had to come. The Feywild, you know? I know we just said bye, but I had to come. All right, let's do this.

LAURA: We all get down on a knee.

TRAVIS: Nahla, it is a friend, not a foe. She's with me, and a great ally of ours.

MATT: With that, Nahla steps back through the water, taking invisible steps up to the top of the surface, where you're pretty much up to your waist in the pool at this time. She's now standing directly on the surface about ten feet from you. She looks out and looks towards you. “I remember you, as well.”

ASHLEY: Hi. I remember you. (stammering) I didn't mean to startle you. I didn't know everyone was in the middle of something.

SAM: (whispering) She fucked her, too.

MATT: She met all of you guys.

MARISHA: Oh right, for a hot second. But then she took Grog–

SAM: Of course we remember that thing that happened when we were drunk two and a half years ago.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I do apologize again for startling you.

MATT: “It's all right. Not many things happen in this glade these days, so when they happen rapidly, it tends to drop my heart a bit. Speaking of which, do you still carry my heart with you, Grog?”

TRAVIS: As you know, my lady, of course I do.

MATT: She turns her head. “I don't sense it on your person.”

TRAVIS: Oh! Right. An actual– No, I don't. We needed it for something. Yeah, so when last I saw you, I had this horrible bunk in my chest? It was terrible. And in combination with your heart, I was able to remove it and prolong my life. Which means I'm here.

MATT: “Glad you're safe. I shall begin the process of creating a new one, then. I'm glad it served you well.”

TRAVIS: It did, thank you. Many, many thanks. And you have our apologies again for beheading one of your flowers and for making all the loud snapping noises. This is not the way we wanted to start, believe me.

MATT: She puts her hand up and nods.

MARISHA: I Druidcraft a Tal'Dorei daisy and give it back to– I didn't mean to hurt your flowers.

MATT: She nods and laughs. She brings her arm up and as she does, a singular vine seems to grow up out of the muck and curl up, and take the daisy from your finger and drag it off into the forest.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: If I might ask, old bleachy-hair over here took a look at your beauty and all of a sudden went (raspberry) and can't see anything.

MATT: “That's a hard lesson learned.”

MARISHA: Can you not get it back?

TRAVIS: Nope, he's blind forever.

MATT: “It doesn't work that way. I'm sorry.”

LAURA: How does it work?

MATT: “For the most part, those that fall under my protective gaze, they've earned it. Don't consider past that. And my innate talents do not reach beyond that striking, so I'm sorry.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, totally cool. We're going to put some Braille on your gun.

LAURA: I bet Pike has a few tricks up her sleeve.

ASHLEY: I think I could give it a go, with some things.

MARISHA: Do you have Regeneration on you today?

ASHLEY: (quietly) Yeah.

TALIESIN: I think it's probably mystical.

MARISHA: I could attempt a Dispel Magic first.

SAM: Maybe you're just this way now, and your other senses will get better.

MARISHA: You could rock it for a while.

TRAVIS: You said it's been very calm around here.

MATT: “Yes.”

TRAVIS: No unexpected visitors or commotions lately?

MATT: “Not around my glade, no. I'd know.”

TRAVIS: May I introduce to you Vex'ahlia?

MATT: “We've met, yes.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's right. I forget. She's seeking something in this place.

LAURA: Yes, actually. We all are. Have you heard tale of a sick tree? Something very cancerous on the land.

MATT: “There are trees that fall under various states of corruption time and time again in the Feywild. Light and darkness stands eternal here.”

LAURA: This one holds a bow at its heart.

MARISHA: It's located in a bog?

LAURA: In a bog. Something about glass?

MARISHA: Near the river of the Gilded Run?

MATT: “The Shademirk Bog.”

MARISHA: The Shademirk Bog. That's the one!

MATT: “That is roughly two days duskward from here.”

SAM: Duskward? That's west.

TALIESIN: Or what passes for west.

LAURA: I just started a page on the Feywild and now it's already– there it is.

TRAVIS: Nahla, I'm sorry. I'm very simple. Is duskward actually west?

MATT: “Duskward is towards the dusk.” She points. As she puts her finger up, you can see the trees relax now and open up the sky above you, and you can see the direction where most of the setting sunlight is being cast into the sky, and she motions in that direction.

TRAVIS: Are you controlling the way the trees move?

MATT: “This is my glade. We are one.”

TRAVIS: Yes. It's very impressive.

MARISHA: Man, can you teach people how to do that? Because that's awesome.

SAM: We'll be moving on before then.

MARISHA: You know what? I'll talk to you later about it.

SAM: Have you heard anything of this bow or this tree?

MATT: “I have not. I stay here. This is my home, and I am bound to it to not wander too far. What I know of the Shademirk, I only know through individuals who passed through and kept me up to speed with things that may or may not be transpiring in this landscape, but those meetings are tens of years, if not more, between.”

LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: I'm sorry. Have there been any significant changes of late? Cities here that didn't exist but a while ago?

MATT: “Not to my knowledge, no. My understanding of realms beyond this wood and beyond this glade are fairly limited beyond what I've been given by passersby, and it's been not since you, Grog, stepped through with me. I've not had another cross my path.”

LAURA: Sounds lonely.

MATT: “It is my life. The trees keep me company. The roots, they speak. The earth itself is sustenance and the voice, the timeless voice of this land– well, there are many stories here.”

TRAVIS: She's so sweet.

MARISHA: I really like her, yeah.

TRAVIS: As we make our way towards this area, is there anything that you would warn us of?

MATT: “Everything.”

TRAVIS: Oh. Everything.

TALIESIN: Like don't pick the flowers.

SAM: Is there anything specifically we should avoid? Specific plants, colors?

TRAVIS: Hands in the pocket policy going forward?

MATT: “Gauge with care that which you tamper. Many things lie and live in these lands that could be of aid and many, your own destruction. Words spoken by many who live and call the Feywild their home are in themselves riddles. Deceit is their common form of time passage, and those that wander from beyond, well, some would consider you more of a toy or a plaything than a visitor or passerby.”

TRAVIS: Before we leave, is there anything we might bring you on our way back through here, should we be successful?

MATT: (laughs) “Bring me some books.”

TRAVIS: Books?

MATT: “I'd like some books.”

TRAVIS: My kind of books? Pictures?

MATT: “Pictures are always nice, but things to tell me of things beyond my sphere. Perhaps the world you come from. Beyond the Frostweald, I know very little, as well.”

LAURA: I have a book on me. Would you like it?

MATT: “Take whatever you wish to say goodbye with.”

LAURA: Well. I basically have it memorized at this point, I've read it so many times.

MATT: She takes it and thumbs through.

LAURA: That'll be 30 gold.

(laughter)

LIAM: 35.

LAURA: 50 gold.

TRAVIS: Markup's a bitch.

MATT: Closes it. “Thank you.”

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: Before we set out. You've told us what to be wary of: everything. Is there anyone out there we can trust if come across them?

MATT: “Depends on what you seek and what your reasons are. Trust goes all ways. The difficulty is finding who is aligned with your ideals, your intentions, and your goals, and who isn't. I trust practically no one. Sorry.”

TALIESIN: I'm sorry, were you talking to me?

SAM: She's talking to you.

LAURA: What were those little colored lights that disappear as we get close?

MATT: “Oh! Feyspecks. They are small entities that care to the underbrush of the forests here. They're not dangerous.”

LAURA: Do they lead you anywhere?

MATT: “I'm sure they lead you many places, though none of them may be where you're trying to go. I wouldn't trust them to guide you. They themselves are very deceptive and trickery-loving entities. But they help me keep the glade in the forest.”

LAURA: I was wondering if you have any sort of– you're very well-versed with this area. Any form of protection you could offer us or recommend to us as we move forward in this confusing land?

LIAM: Any last bit of advice.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: She thinks for a moment, holding the tome under her arm. “Well. I have minor magical capabilities. Perhaps I could harden the physicality of one of you, in a way to aid. It won't last long, but it's something.”

MARISHA: Any assistance is more than greatly appreciated.

LAURA: Maybe Grog?

TRAVIS: No, I definitely don't need it. I'm good. Who's all tender?

SAM: Percy, at this point.

LAURA: Oh. Well, that's true.

SAM: How many of us can you embolden?

TALIESIN: I'm a bit useless at the moment.

SAM: No, don't sell yourself short. You're great.

TALIESIN: You know I know what you're doing right now?

MATT: She steps forward, and as you're having this conversation, she puts her fingers towards the front of your forehead and touches your skin. You feel a surge of warmth through your body, though blackness still takes your vision. The rest of you watch as his skin suddenly turns to a dark brown and crackles. For a brief moment, you fear, but notice it's like his physical form, all parts of the pinky flesh of the human Percy become hard like tree bark.

LAURA: Oh, that's attractive.

TRAVIS: You got wood.

LAURA: How's it feel?

MARISHA: I sniff Percy.

MATT: It's like a fine cedar.

MARISHA: It's nice. It suits you. It's very masculine. It's a musk.

TALIESIN: Thank you. I'm still angry with you, but thank you.

SAM: Grog, carve your name in him.

TRAVIS: Yes! Oh my god. Holy shit.

TALIESIN: I put the pistol slowly in the direction of his voice. My lady, I do appreciate your gift, and I do apologize for my friend and for startling you earlier. It is my deepest regret that I cannot take in the majesty of your realm for the moment.

LAURA: (laughter) Of your realm.

MATT: “Well. Keep your wits about you. That's the finest defense you have against this uncertain landscape.”

TRAVIS: It was a true joy seeing you again. We'll try to bring ourselves by this way on our way out as we can.

MATT: “I appreciate that. It is good to see your faces, as brief as it is.”

TRAVIS: Well, wish us luck.

MATT: “Good luck and safe travels.”

ASHLEY: Bye, Nahla.

MARISHA: As we walk away, I give Percy a wet willie.

TRAVIS: I bow to her before I leave.

LAURA: Yeah, we do that, too.

TALIESIN: Does she go for the wet willie?

MARISHA: No, I give you a wet willie.

TALIESIN: Are you trying to give me a wet willie? I use missile snare.

TRAVIS: (pointedly) I bow before we leave.

MARISHA: It's not a ranged attack.

MATT: So you bow. She turns around and begins to walk back down the invisible steps you see her taking, as she drifts deeper into the water, and actually, before she disappears beneath the surface, looks over her shoulder and smiles at you, Grog, and then disappears beneath the water below.

LAURA: Be honest. You totally (tongue click).

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Did you?

TRAVIS: I what? What's wrong with your mouth?

LAURA: Did you get it on with her?

LIAM: Copulation, Grog. She means did you do the thing.

TRAVIS: Population? No. There's no population in that. I think it's just her in that.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Did she like the beard, though?

LAURA: Oh, that's right, you didn't have a beard before!

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation, there's a brief sound as Percy, even amongst his blinded state, catches Keyleth's finger in midair.

MARISHA: I still don't say that's a ranged attack!

TRAVIS: Gross. While the children play, I make my way towards the dusk direction.

LAURA: Toward the Shademirk.

LIAM: Wait, hold on. I believe I was standing next to Keyleth, so I stick my pinky into my mouth and I shove it into Percy's ear.

MARISHA: Wet willie is happening!

MATT: All right. Flanked by wet willies, Percy, one is halted, but in the distracted moment and the stealthy rogue being what he is, you feel the slimy insertion of a single half-elven digit into your ear canal.

LIAM: And I say: Keyleth, that is really immature, really. What is the matter with you? And I walk off.

TALIESIN: Still angry at you.

ASHLEY: We should fix you.

MARISHA: Consider that payback.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Is there any rocks or debris or little pebbles around on the ground?

MATT: Yeah. There's plenty of stone debris.

TRAVIS: I'll take a small pebble. Pike, you really should do what you can to help Percy.

ASHLEY: All right.

TRAVIS: And I toss the pebble at his face.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Missile snare? With disadvantage?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MARISHA: See, that is a ranged attack.

TALIESIN: 26.

MATT: He catches the pebble out of the air.

TALIESIN: My kung-fu is far stronger than yours.

SAM: All right, Pike. Do your thing.

LAURA: I don't know if he needs it.

TALIESIN: I have dreamed about coming here since I was a little child. I'm going to see this!

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: Wait, let's all think about this for a moment. Don't do anything hasty. (stage whisper) Everybody, let's back up slowly.

MATT: It gets really quiet suddenly, Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm on a bear.

MATT: Yes. Trinket stops and (bear noises).

LAURA: (stage whisper) It's okay, Trinket.

SAM: (stage whisper) Pike, if you do this thing that you're going to do, will it take away his Barkskin, too?

ASHLEY: I don't know. That's why I'm a little nervous.

LAURA: Well, you know. That's how it goes.

MARISHA: You know, and to be fair, Barkskin, it's all right.

TRAVIS: Maybe it's temporary.

MARISHA: Barkskin is temporary.

TRAVIS: No, I mean the blind part.

MARISHA: Oh, the blindness? I don't know.

TALIESIN: You're all wearing your earrings. It's dangerous as it is, but–

LIAM: It's clearly hilarious, but Percival is our sharpshooter. I don't know if we want him–

LAURA: He is one of our sharpshooters, thank you very much.

LIAM: Well, why would we want one when we could have two?

TRAVIS: Let's try it, then.

ASHLEY: Yeah, a blind sharpshooter might not be the best in the Feywild. I would throw it out there.

TALIESIN: Be a shame if your broom breaks.

LAURA: It really would. Hey, I want to heal you! All right?

MARISHA: Do you want to be healed or not, Percy? Jeez, first you say you're mad at me and then you ensnare my melee wet willie–

SAM: People! We're tearing ourselves apart in the Feywild.

TALIESIN: I'm just reminding the dear what side her bread is buttered on.

SAM: Let Pike get rid of this blind spot so we can all be together again.

TRAVIS: It's masterful.

LAURA: How long has he been working on that?

TALIESIN: Wow. Okay.

LIAM: Critical Role, where you come for high fantasy.

LAURA: Give it a go.

MARISHA: Wait. Percy.

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: Say you're not mad at me anymore. Say: Hey, I know I've done things in the past to piss you off–

LAURA: Trinket, come here!

MATT: All of a sudden, Trinket lurches forward and starts dragging him.

TALIESIN: Am I a reckless human?

MARISHA: Yes.

TALIESIN: So when I say you shouldn't probably touch anything, there's probably a really good reason, right?

MARISHA: Yeah. Are you going to hold this one against me because I picked a flower, like how you held the Clasp against me?

MATT: Trinket's been dragging him away from you, towards her.

MARISHA: Hold against me like the Clasp?

SAM: Do you need inspiration, Pike?

ASHLEY: No, I think it's okay.

TALIESIN: I'll have my revenge, but I love you.

MARISHA: It's okay.

ASHLEY: Get my way up Trinket and cast Greater Restoration.

MATT: Okay. So as you clutch your holy symbol, your flickering divine form drifts over towards the side of Trinket. You reach up and touch his leg, and the warmth of the divine energy surges through his leg. You can see it almost like a sparkle up his chest, little light rays peering out from beneath the clothing. It comes up his gullet, up the side of his face, and his eyes flash white, with beams of gentle sunlight shooting out for a second. The darkness becomes blurry, and your vision over the next 15 or so seconds returns to normal.

TALIESIN: Oh!

ASHLEY: You see?

TALIESIN: Yes, much better. Hi! It's so good to see you.

ASHLEY: Does he still have Barkskin?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: I come up from behind and give him another wet willie!

TALIESIN: (yelps)

MARISHA: See? I got you even when you had your eyes.

TALIESIN: I'll make you a deal.

MARISHA: All right, what?

TALIESIN: Come here.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: Can we start moving forward? Yeah, we leave them.

MARISHA: All right. We'll keep moving.

MATT: You guys catch up with the rest of the party, who's now moved on ahead. Making your way through this thick forest, I would like you all to make a perception check.

SAM: Perception check?

LAURA: Perception check.

TRAVIS: Nice. 19. Natural 19.

LAURA: 27.

TALIESIN: 11.

MARISHA: 25.

SAM: Oh, ten.

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: What did you get, Liam?

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24. Okay. 25s or higher, which I think is Keyleth and Vex. You guys push through the forest for about another two hours or so.

MARISHA: While we do that, I take Percy's Barkskin, and I regal it out. I give him moss epaulets, grow some flowers on it, give him a little Whitestone flower crown. I'm making him a fancy tree.

LIAM: A druidic Sergeant Pepper?

TALIESIN: Now we're even. Good.

MATT: All right. Two hours of travel towards the direction of the dusk, keeping tabs on it the best you can, you being the tracker you are, you notice that the night hasn't come. The light in the sky itself has not changed. The dusk hasn't waxed or waned; there's been no change in the sky light or color whatsoever. The dusk seems to have for the last couple hours been perpetual and unmoving.

TALIESIN: Maybe we're in the dusklands.

LAURA: I feel like I remember hearing that the time here is very strange.

MARISHA: It stays at a constant, correct?

TALIESIN: Well, not necessarily.

LAURA: Maybe it moves slower here. I don't know.

MARISHA: We are moving towards dusk, correct? We're moving towards the setting sun?

MATT: You're moving towards that. That was the one direction you were given by the nymph, yes.

TALIESIN: It could be that we are either stuck in a loop or that we simply in an area of the Feywild that is eternal dusk.

LAURA: Does it feel like we're moving forward?

MARISHA: She said it was two days' travel.

SAM: Two dusks' travel.

TALIESIN: So we have to pass a dusk, at least.

SAM: That could be years.

TALIESIN: It could.

LAURA: Do you think it's safe if I fly up and look at the sky?

TALIESIN: No, but you might as well. Nothing's safe.

MARISHA: Do I see any birds or anything like that in the sky? Any wildlife? Any critters?

MATT: Make a perception check.

ASHLEY: Any critters?

LAURA and TALIESIN: Critters everywhere.

MARISHA: Sorry, 21. Yes, 21.

MATT: Yeah, okay. You glance up at the next opening you have in the canopy, and you see occasionally a flock of birds go flying by. There is definitely vibrant wildlife, and you've seen throughout the forest here skittering squirrels and other creatures that live here, though themselves being skittish and running off as soon as your footfalls begin to hit that portion of the forest. There is a very vibrant critter lifestyle here within this part of the Feywild.

LAURA: I'm going to try flying up. All right, I'm going to try flying up above the canopy.

MATT: Okay. You come up above the canopy. Have to maneuver around some of the larger branches, and these trees are tall. You probably get yourself a hundred feet up before you finally break the canopy, and as you coast over the top you can see now before you, this forest is vast. The majority of it behind you, and you can actually see what appears to be the edge of the forest's line maybe about ten miles up, and past that you can see rolling grass hills before a mountain line. You can see in the distance, a very far distance– make a perception check.

LAURA: I'm assuming I'm not in the forest anymore, right?

MATT: This would be looking beyond the forest, so yeah, it would not have advantage.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. You see a faint glimmer of some kind. Something that stands out, it's like a reflection or bead of light amongst the grass fields beyond the forest. You're unable to really tell the distance, but it does stand out as it occasionally flickers.

LAURA: Flickering. Do I see any sign of a city?

MATT: Not from this perspective, no. Mostly, it looks natural from this view. Also, the clouds in the sky are slowly moving like normal clouds, and you can see in the distance what appears to be a sun that has passed beyond the mountain range, but there is no change in the light.

LAURA: The sky looks the same?

MATT: Same it was since the moment you arrived.

LAURA: Well, at least we know we've made some headway. I go back down. There's a tree line, at least. I think we should reach it soon.

TALIESIN: And if we don't, then we know that there's a problem.

LAURA: Right.

TALIESIN: And remember: in theory, from what little I know, the prettier it is, the more dangerous it probably is, and the older it is, the more dangerous it probably is.

MARISHA: What, things get prettier as they get older here? That's not fair.

SAM: Just the men.

MARISHA: Damn it.

TRAVIS: All right, let's keep going, then.

MATT: Okay. You guys push on for another three or so hours–

LAURA: We're not out of the tree line yet?

MATT: At the pace you guys are walking, you just begin to push outside of the trees. It was hard gauging the distance from that period of time; that was the rough estimate based on the perception roll. You begin to watch the tree line thin a bit. There's still many trees around you, but the density's beginning to scatter, and you're beginning to see more and more light let through from the treetops, and the trees themselves are not as tall as they were towards the central bulk of the forest. Vex, you do catch to your left side something that sounds like at first a little hiss, but instead it comes to your ear as a chuckle.

LAURA: Hello?

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: Did you hear something?

LAURA: Is somebody there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Ooh! Natural 20.

MATT: Natural 20. You glance out of the corner of your eye, and you see about four trees behind you some outline of a shaded figure that darts behind a tree.

LAURA: (stage whisper) Did anybody else see that?

ALL: What?

LAURA: Okay, cool. Did it look childlike or adultlike?

MATT: In between.

LAURA: Oh. Okay.

LIAM: We got a problem here?

LAURA: Just be ready.

SAM: Which direction?

LAURA: Behind us. I saw you!

MARISHA: Let's get back-to-back, shall we?

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit backwards on the bear while we move forward.

MARISHA: I'm going to go back-to-back to the twins.

LAURA: Did you want to say hello?

MATT: No response.

LAURA: All right. I guess we'll have fun over here without you.

TRAVIS: Are you sure you really saw something?

LAURA: Laugh like I told a really funny joke.

(forced laughter)

TRAVIS: You kill me. Oh man, who would want to miss this?

SAM: I didn't know a nun could curse like that.

LAURA: So funny. Anything?

MATT: You guys continue making your way towards the edge of the forest, and shortly after, the tree line does come to an end. There are small clusters of trees, but beyond that, you're now opening this nearly-endless grassland, the grasses themselves swaying with the breeze that is starting to catch up. You can see the waves that curl over these low hills, and this beautiful, deep verdant green-emerald color that shifts and cascades over and over and over. As you begin to step into the grass, it's high. It's chest-high to the half-elves. A little below waist-high to you, and the gnomes are swimming through grass, at this point.

TRAVIS: Hey, buddy.

ASHLEY: This is fun, though.

TRAVIS: Do you want to keep staying down there doing the breaststroke?

ASHLEY: No. I'm done.

TALIESIN: It occurs to me, I don't actually have to ride the bear anymore.

LAURA: That's true. Do you guys want to ride Trinket and see?

SAM: No, thanks. I'll ride Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: I'll ride Trinket.

MATT: You hop on Trinket.

LAURA: Do you still have Barkskin? Nice.

MARISHA: He looks good, too, right?

TALIESIN: She's done me up.

ASHLEY: I give Trinket a scratch where it makes him go weird and start scratching his neck.

MATT: (bear noises) He reaches up and gives you a lick, but it pseudo-passes through your form, and Trinket looks really confused and tilts the bear head to the side.

ASHLEY: Sorry, buddy.

LAURA: Oh! As we're walking, first question: do I see any form of path through this grass?

MATT: It's open field. Directionless and before you. There is still the dusk ahead of you. That's the best directional point you have right now, but there is no worn path. There is no road or street. There are no signs of civilization. It looks like an endless field.

LIAM: I've played the original Legend of Zelda. I know if we go up, left, down, left, we should get out of this field.

MATT: Shoot the bush.

LAURA: The flicker of light I saw in the distance. Are we going to intersect it in the direction that we're going?

MATT: You will get near it.

LAURA: Okay, so I'll keep an eye in that direction as we move forward, but I want to talk to you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah?

LAURA: I've been trying to find out a way to talk to Trinket like I know you can, right?

MARISHA: Oh?

LAURA: I was wondering if maybe you could teach me how to do that?

MARISHA: (gasps) Teach you?

LAURA: Do you think that's possible?

MARISHA: I don't know! But I'd like to try.

LAURA: Okay!

MARISHA: Yeah, that would be fun. Okay. Can I do something like that?

LAURA: I have a spell slot available for Speak With Animals that I never claimed that I want to learn.

MATT: You want to take it? Okay. As you guys begin to walk through the field, you begin to reveal some of the druidic secrets of animal communication to Vex, and over the course of the next hour of travel–

MARISHA: See, the thing is, you have to get the accents right for each critter, or else they could get a little offended.

TRAVIS: And you're the point of access.

MARISHA: Totally. I keep going.

MATT: She bestows upon you the elements of it. It's less about vocality. It's about being able to connect on an empathic and emotional level, where creatures can speak to you less out of words and more out of the idea of emotions and thoughts, which our human minds– or in some cases, half-human minds– accept as words. There is no actual speech that they're talking, like, “Hello, my dear!”

MARISHA: So one of the things that I like to do is embody the animal, and that can get you in the mindset.

LAURA: I will definitely keep that in mind.

MARISHA: Let's practice being Trinket together.

LAURA: I let her do that, and I'm going to keep walking normally.

MATT: She does it for a while.

MARISHA: I go up to Grog. (sniffs, groans)

LAURA: I'm learning so much.

ASHLEY: I think we're all learning. This is so great.

SAM: I wish Nahla had cast Blindness on me.

(laughter)

LAURA: Can I walk up to Trinket and say: Hey, buddy. Can you understand me?

MATT: Do you cast the spell?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: Trinket turns to you.

LAURA: Do you understand me?

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: (screams) I hug him so hard! Oh my gosh!

MATT: You grab him. Trinket doesn't seem to realize any sort of difference.

LAURA: Could you understand me all the time?

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: Oh, darling, but now I understand you, and it's wonderful!

MATT: “Okay.”

LAURA: Okay, quick question. Do you mind being in my necklace, or does it bother you? What's it like? Is it terrible? Because I don't want to do it if you hate it.

MATT: “It's a little lonely.”

ASHLEY: Oh no!

MATT: “I haven't been in there very long.”

LAURA: No, you haven't. Okay. Well, that's good. Well, I basically wanted to say that I love you so much.

MARISHA: I give her a thumbs up.

MATT: “I love you, too, Vex'ahlia.”

LAURA: (sobbing) I start crying!

MATT: A big lick upside your face, and nudges his head against you.

LAURA: Oh, this is the best spell ever! I can't believe I didn't know it before! Trinket! Thanks, Keyleth!

MARISHA: The accent's really good. You're doing a good job. It's very good.

MATT: As Trinket nudges you, he says, “It's okay. I can stay in there all you need.”

LAURA: Thanks, buddy.

MATT: “I can watch you through there. I can see you.”

LAURA: You can? Wait, you can?

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: Cool. It's like when your dog comes in the room when you're peeing. It's a little awkward at first when you hear about it, but it's fine. It's okay. I'm fine with it. Whatever.

MATT: Grog, you've actually been in there, so you have an idea of what he's talking about.

LAURA: If you understood what he was saying, which you don't!

MATT: Boom, what!

TALIESIN: I'm imagining the genie bottle.

LAURA: For a while, as long as my spell lasts, I want to keep talking to Trinket and catch up on old times.

MATT: You guys do, and he talks about how he hated at the time, but has in hindsight enjoyed the memory of the pie contest in Whitestone.

LAURA: Oh, right. That was so good, right?

ASHLEY: What about getting his hair done with flowers and braids and bows?

MATT: He tells you that was fine, but you can tell through the subtle bear undertones that he wasn't too happy about it. But everything has this tone of basically whatever you need, and anything for you. There is an undying loyalty and love from Trinket that you've always felt, but now to hear in language form is very moving.

LIAM: I'm watching quietly the whole time with a smile at this bear that I've known as a cub grunting with my sister grunting back, and it's very touching.

LAURA: I love the Feywild.

TRAVIS: I think the whole thing is fucking weird.

MARISHA: Keyleth wipes away a little tear.

ASHLEY: Same. I'm sitting on Trinket, wiping away tears.

LAURA: We're walking.

TRAVIS: We've been walking this whole time.

MATT: You guys keep walking. And you keep walking.

SAM: We still haven't hit that tree line?

MATT: You're past the tree line. You're in the grass, but it's hard to really gauge, since you have no sun in the sky and you don't have a central timepiece of any kind.

LAURA: Do we feel tired?

TRAVIS: Well, hold on. Can I spin around and see if the grass we've been trampling on is leaving a trail?

MATT: No. None. No trail. It's like you never stepped through behind you. The grasses parted where you walked through, and then, looking behind, it's like you were dropped in the middle of a field.

TRAVIS: Is anything following us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: There was that kid that we talked to.

ASHLEY: Good call.

TRAVIS: A deathly eight.

LAURA: There was a creature in the woods.

TALIESIN: That you saw?

LAURA: I saw it.

TRAVIS: Nothing. We're good!

ASHLEY: Can I perception check?

MATT: You can make a perception check, as well, yeah.

TALIESIN: Vex, do you feel like getting a little bit of a bird's-eye view really quickly, perhaps?

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: Glancing about, a smooth grassline.

TRAVIS: We're clear. Team monster!

ASHLEY: No one's following us!

SAM: What about this? Keyleth, can't we move through the trees?

TALIESIN: We can't. There's no trees.

SAM: Just grass?

MARISHA: I will turn around. How far away are we from the treeline?

MATT: From where you guys left?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: It's visible, but it's quite a ways away.

MARISHA: We have been moving away.

MATT: Yeah. It's the rolling fields and hills. It's comparable to the width of the valley between the Cliffkeep Mountains and the Stormcrest Mountains on Tal'Dorei. It seems like such a vast space, with no immediate scattered landmarks. In your head, which is used to gauging your position from small changes in the scenery, it's mind-numbing. It feels like it's endless.

LAURA: We have food. We're on our way.

SAM: What if this is a week's journey? What if this is two weeks' journey?

MARISHA: She said two days south.

SAM: She said two dusks south. What if this is a month?

MATT: She said two days duskward.

LAURA: Two days duskward. See? Two days.

LIAM: Does that mean two days into dusk or two days that last an eternity?

LAURA: Two days. It's two days.

MATT: She said two days duskward.

TRAVIS: We're fine.

MARISHA: But you were saying she was using two days in a way that we would understand?

LIAM: We don't know.

TALIESIN: I'm feeling pretty confident about this. I'm not having a lot of stress about this.

TRAVIS: Let's keep grooving. Sun's up.

TALIESIN: Until it's time that we all think it's time to take a rest, and we'll take a nap.

LAURA: Yeah. When we feel tired– I do want to make sure that nothing's following us on occasion, and make sure that nothing is around.

TRAVIS: We checked it out. We're solid.

SAM: Should one of us circle back and make sure that no one's behind us?

LAURA: We'll get separated.

MARISHA: We'll never find each other again.

SAM: All right, then we're going to keep going, and I'll keep reading my book on top of Grog.

MARISHA: Do we still see the flashing light in the distance that she saw?

MATT: Only at times, because when you go below the hills into these deep valleys, before you come to the next hill line, it cuts off your perspective. But as you get close, make another perception check, Vex, as you're keeping an eye on the back of Trinket.

LIAM: Wait, you said Vax. Do you mean Vax, or do you mean Vex?

MATT: I said Vex.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. The source of the glimmer is becoming larger, but you can't make out any details. There are actually a few glimmers, clustered. It's one of those things where it's not perpetual. Every now and then you see it.

LAURA: We are heading towards something. I'm not sure what it is.

MARISHA: Is it erratic?

MATT: It seems erratic, yeah.

TRAVIS: Something's on fire.

TALIESIN: It's a party.

SAM: Press on?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: What else are we going to do?

TRAVIS: Definitely nothing here.

TALIESIN: We press on until it's time to rest.

MATT: You push on for a few more hours, and trying to think back how long you've been here, the time passes in a strange way to the point where you have no way of understanding how much time has gone by, but you're starting to get a little tired like you would towards the end of a day's worth of travel. You come up over a large hillside, and you can see now, there's a base of a mountain range that you can make out a little bit in the distance that meets up where that flickering is. You can see what appears to be now the source of the flickering. There looks to be some sort of a civilization. There are towers. There appears to be a stone ring around it. It's hard to make out the details from this distance, but it looks fairly large. It's in the side of the mountain range.

TALIESIN: I say we camp here. I think it's a lovely idea.

TRAVIS: What's around us? Grass fields, pretty much?

MATT: Just grass fields.

TRAVIS: Far as you can see?

MATT: As far as you can see, and then the hill line eventually gets so high in the distance where you can't see past it. You see the mountain range and whatever the source of this glimmer is, this strange, city-like series of structures at the base of that mountain range.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Let's set up shop, drop.

LAURA: Can I fly up on the broom and see if I can see anything in the field around us or look for any movement in the grass?

SAM: Don't forget your hat!

LAURA: I put my fucking hat on.

TALIESIN: It suits you. It's lovely. I'm going to use my optics to try and sketch what I can of the city for the moment and get a general idea of it, sitting down and starting to get an idea of it.

LIAM: And does it look like anything from my sister and my memory?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a perception check on your end, as well, Vax.

LAURA: And me?

LIAM: 20.

MATT: As you're getting up, sure, go ahead and make one, because you get a better view, as well.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. Vax, it's hard at this distance to make out much of the information, especially with the grass being as high as it is, and the hill beyond it. For the most part, the folks that can get a clear bead are those that are above the grass line and keeping a keen eye, which Vex is.

LAURA: Oh, whispers! Whispers!

ASHLEY: (singing) Whispers in the night!

SAM: This is the anticipation that you feel before you open a Loot Crate! Not knowing what it could be. Could it be good? Could it be bad? What you do know is that it's $3 off if you use the code criticalrole.

TALIESIN: Don't try and Super Saiyan me.

MARISHA: Amazing.

TALIESIN: Oh, not quite.

MARISHA: Almost. Wait, maybe the bigger one?

LAURA: He's been chewing on that, just so you know. In addition to that, do I see anything in the grass around us?

MATT: From what you can see… every now and then, you see tiny little bits of movement in the grass, maybe a quarter mile one way. You can see a similar type winding shape in the grass a mile or so the other way. It's even further out. There are other things moving in the grass, but none of them are breaking the grass surface. But they appear to be singular, at least in the shifting of movement. You do catch a smaller source of movement in the grass, no more than 30 feet off from where the rest of your party is currently walking.

LAURA: Can I fly down near it?

MATT: Yeah. You swoop down, and over view of that, you can see what appears to be a small humanoid that is curling through the grass line. Looks human. Big, thick curled beard, very coarse dark hair. A muscled torso; stocky, but strong. What appears to be a light blue vest that's covering the upper part of the torso, most of the buttons missing, and the bottom of it tattered and worn. The hindquarters themselves are fur and come into cloven hooves, and you can see a small pair of horns hooking off the back of the head. This individual is skulking through the grass, carrying a small book and a long quill, and he's occasionally leaping up over the grass line, landing, and then drawing something in the book.

LAURA: Does he see me?

MATT: He does not see you at the moment, no. You're overhead.

LAURA: I want to float down above him on the broom and lay down on the broom and say: What are you drawing?

MATT: As soon as you come down and whisper, the tome slams shut. The figure stands up straight, slowly turns the eyes towards you, and you can see the dark and ruddy skin, the sun-touched nose and cheeks, a darker, more leathered texture to them, but the eyes are piercing ice blue as he looks back into yours. “Nothing.”

LAURA: Nothing at all?

MATT: “Just taking notes.”

LAURA: On those people up there?

MATT: “Yes.”

LAURA: Oh. Interesting.

MATT: “Because why not?”

LAURA: Why not? You know, you probably could get a better view of them if you were riding on this broom.

MATT: “You see, if you're worried, it's not me you need to worry about. It's him.” And points past your shoulder.

LAURA: I'm not looking. I'm not falling for that! Nope! Can I insight check him and see?

MATT: Make an insight check, yeah.

TALIESIN: I love this place.

LAURA: 16?

MATT: 16? He seems like a slippery person in general, though he is caught off guard and right now is in self-preservation mode. It's hard to gauge if he's telling the truth or not.

LAURA: I'm not going to bite you.

MATT: “I don't– I'm not a biter. I'm not the biter in this area.” And he starts backing up towards the grass.

LAURA: Can I fly down and grab his wrist and fly up?

MATT: You grab his wrist and fly up? (whimpers) I need you to make a grapple check. Go ahead and make an athletics.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

TRAVIS: I love it.

LAURA: Athletics? Oh, great. 15?

MATT: He pulls away, and as your hand grabs his wrist, he attempts to slip his hand out. Fingers pull through from your grasp as you double over your other hand and grab him by the elbow. You lift up and pull him out of the grass field, now dangling his little feet in the middle of the air. As he's being dragged up, the quill gets dropped, and he looks for it, and the book's tumbling out of his hand. He grabs the book and clutches it to himself. “What are you doing?”

LAURA: Now I spin around and see if there's anything behind me.

MATT: There is nothing visible in the vicinity.

LAURA: Sneaky little fuck!

MATT: “Please! This is really high!”

LAURA: It really is. I think we should go say hi to my friends, don't you?

MATT: (whimpers)

LAURA: We're in need of company, dear. And we fly down. Hello to everyone.

MATT: You drag him down, the broom coasting right over the grass line, presenting you and your new compatriot to the rest of Vox Machina.

LAURA: Well, look at this friend I just found!

MARISHA: Look at you!

MATT: Dangling from her grasp.

SAM: Grog, grab him!

LAURA: Gentle, Grog. Gentle.

MATT: “Hey, friend. You look like a smart fellow. Let's have a conversation.”

SAM: Don't talk to him.

TRAVIS: What is this?

LAURA: What are you?

TRAVIS: What are you?

MATT: “I am but a simple wanderer and an individual who enjoys learning about things that are new and different.”

SAM: Squeeze him.

LAURA: Don't squeeze him, Grog.

ASHLEY: What's your name?

MATT: “Garmelie.”

ASHLEY: What was it?

MATT: “Garmelie.”

ASHLEY: What are you reading?

MATT: “I'm–”

ASHLEY: What are you reading?

MATT: “Nothing! No reading!”

LAURA: No reading, just drawing. Percy! Our friend Percival here, he likes to draw, as well.

TALIESIN: I do, quite a bit. Let's see your work.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, compare notes!

MATT: He tries to wiggle out of your grasp, but it does nothing. You're concrete around him.

TRAVIS: With one of my fingers, can I give him a little tickle?

MATT: (giggles) “No!”

TALIESIN: I'm going to very gently put my hand on the book and take it.

MATT: It's a very finely bound book. The leather is impeccable. It's oiled. There's a brass metallic trim around the edges of it and the binding. There is a thick piece of red velvet strip that is set as a bookmarker in the center of it.

TALIESIN: May I?

MATT: (whimpers)

(laughter)

ASHLEY: That's the best face ever.

LAURA: Garmelie, I saw what you were drawing, and it was quite lovely. Don't you want to share?

MARISHA: What's the matter? Are you scared?

LIAM: You might want to tell us what's going on before we figure it out for ourselves. This is your chance.

MATT: “There's really nothing going on. I was curious and taking notes.”

TALIESIN: I've been taking notes myself.

MARISHA: Yeah, you guys should compare notes. Cross-references are always good.

MATT: “You wouldn't understand.”

MARISHA: You could help us.

TALIESIN: Do we have that Hunk of– not that that's going to help here.

MARISHA: The Hunk of Quall? It's expired.

SAM: I'll step forward and put my hand on his shoulder and say: Listen.

MATT: By the way, he's being held up by Grog right now.

SAM: On his toe, then. I'll say: Listen, little man. I'm little, too, and you have nothing to fear from us as long as you cooperate. I will cast Suggestion on him, and I will suggest that he fully cooperate with us and tell us all he knows.

MATT: What's the DC?

SAM: Well, I didn't use the hand cone, did I? So 18.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Is the book safe to open?

MATT: As you, touching his leg and looking up at him, there's that shimmer of purplish energy in your eyes, and he gives you a look. “Right, no worries. No problems whatsoever. Whatever you need.”

MARISHA: Can I go find his feather quill that he dropped?

MATT: You don't know about the quill. You know the book that he had.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Tell us. Can we open the book?

MATT: Do you want to try to open the book?

TALIESIN: I'm asking, is it safe to open? For me?

MATT: “Yes, it's quite safe.”

TALIESIN: What's at the bookmark, may I ask? And I slowly start to open it at the bookmark.

MATT: “It's where I'm currently making notes.”

TRAVIS: Please be nudie pictures.

TALIESIN: I'm gently opening it.

MATT: All right. The picture you come to, as of right now, is a very finely detailed sketch of Grog. Very well drawn, but he has bulging eyes, big buck teeth, and a very tiny penis.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What do you see?

TALIESIN: He's brilliant. He captured everything.

TRAVIS: What's it a picture of?

SAM: He's a little shithead!

TRAVIS: Has he drawn us?

TALIESIN: I turn it.

SAM: Don't kill him, Grog!

LAURA: There's nothing wrong with drawing a funny picture.

SAM: Art is subjective.

MARISHA: Oh man, he nailed you, Grog.

TRAVIS: What other goliath has been tromping through this place?

MATT: “Many! So many. That's one of them.”

TALIESIN: I'm going to start gently flipping through some of the pages.

MATT: There are drawings of the entire party, but with extremely exaggerated cartoonish parody features. For Pike, her head is extremely large.

TALIESIN: Like Six Flags Magic Mountain caricature vibe?

MATT: Yeah, with a hint of Mad Magazine. It's essentially a book full of dickbutts. It's him drawing and vandalizing the image of a number of you guys. There's a picture of Vax and Keyleth that are both covered in poo and slapping it on their face. Written in Elvish, “I love this!” with a word bubble. It's essentially a kid entertaining himself with a bunch of stupid pictures.

TALIESIN: This is an awfully expensive book to be this shitty in.

MARISHA: Is this just your hobby? Your pastime? Or are you an actual records keeper for whatever town this is? Because both would be humorous.

MATT: “No. No record keeper.”

TALIESIN: I'm going much earlier in the book to see what's there.

MATT: You start seeing a number of elven individuals. You see people in really nice regal armor, but all of them are pooping themselves. There's a bunch of elvish ladies with oversized floppy boobs smacking each other in the face. It's truly childish. But they're really well drawn and well shaded! There is a serious talent to the artwork. His skewed intent of imagery is fascinating.

LIAM: I'm in the mood to hear this guy's life story. Get him a cup.

LAURA: I love them. Honestly, I think you're quite talented.

SAM: Should we make camp here and invite him into the mansion?

LIAM: As long as he's secure, yeah.

MARISHA: What's the name of this little town here that we see?

MATT: “That! That is the elven city of Syngorn. They've been here for a little while, and they've been a gracious source of subjects.”

MARISHA: And where do you live when Syngorn's not here?

MATT: “I live wherever I please. I choose my place to rest.”

LAURA: Where do your clothes come from? Where do you live?

TRAVIS: Do you have any family? Friends?

MATT: “I've got family and friends all over, yes. They're just a ways away.”

LAURA: So you know this area quite well.

MATT: “I know it well, yes.”

LAURA: So you could potentially guide us?

MATT: “It's hard to guide when you're being crushed by a giant green-gray man thing.”

TRAVIS: I'm just saying, is there anyone that would miss you if you're gone?

LAURA: Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Be nice to our guest.

MARISHA: We're in the Feywild.

LAURA: I have a deal for you. We could offer you–

TALIESIN: Dinner!

LAURA: Dinner! Delicious dinner. Chicken. Have you ever had chicken? It's so wonderful.

MATT: “Chicken?”

MARISHA: Also a bath.

LAURA: If you happen to lead us where we want to go.

MATT: “Where do you want to go?”

LAURA: We'll tell you in a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Crack out the door, homie.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: And to sweeten the offer, after you've had dinner with us and we send you on your way, perhaps we will consider giving you your book back. Perhaps.

LAURA: I fly off, and I go grab the quill.

MATT: Make a perception check. That quill fell in the center of a tall grass field.

LAURA: I didn't even make it into the square. It was pathetic. 27?

MATT: You spend the better part of the next 20 minutes realizing that there is no way you're finding this quill amongst the grass. This is the needle in a hay factory.

ASHLEY: Can I pat him down for any weapons?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: He's got seven dicks.

ASHLEY: Nine.

MATT: Best you can find throughout his body, the only thing that catches your attention is a now-crushed ocarina that he had on the inside of his pocket that did not survive the grasping of Grog.

SAM: We can fix it for him.

ASHLEY: We can make you a new one somewhere.

TALIESIN: Give me the bits.

LIAM: Garmelie, we have a very bad track record when we make friends. We have been burned badly a few times, and I want to make it clear that you will be watched while you're here. Come in, eat, enjoy yourself, but multiple people here are keeping an eye on you. Understand?

MATT: “I understand. Look, if we are to strike an accord here, one of friendly trade of services, I would greatly appreciate it's done without this very handsome, muscled– ”

TRAVIS: (sneezes) I sneeze right in his face.

MATT: You see it (drip) off his nose. “Without this man trying to smash my innards, please.”

LAURA: Grog, let him go.

SAM: Well, not go. Just put him down.

LAURA: Grog, put him down and put your hand on his shoulder.

SAM: Are we making camp here? Should we get in the house?

LAURA: Let's hold hands as we walk through the door.

SAM: I'll cast the mansion. I'll sit down and sing: (singing) My house is very, very, very fine house! With chicken everywhere! Life used to be so fair, but now it's better because of me!

(laughter)

MATT: As you finish the incantation, the shimmering doorway of Scanlan's magnificent mansion outlines within the grass field, only emerging about a foot beyond the actual tallest part of the grass. You have to bow down to get into it. But you guys all enter, along with your new friend, Garmelie, into the mansion itself. We'll take a break there, and we'll jump back into this crazed circumstance here in a few minutes. We'll see you guys shortly.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. A couple quick things I forgot to mention at the top, as I guess I can talk about it now. GenCon.

LAURA: Oh shit, we can talk about that?

MATT: I'm talking about it. They have a Critical Role panel that they've announced in the thing they put out–

SAM: Press release?

MATT: Yes, one of those. Emails, newsletters. Thank you. Critical Role stuff happening. I will be there all four days so panels and stuff coming up. Cool. We'll have more info as that's unveiled. But those of you going to GenCon, hopefully I'll have some cool stuff ready for you then. That's one mention. Also want to give another thanks again to Loot Crate for being our awesome sponsor!

(cheering)

MATT: Go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and put in the singular criticalrole word phrase to get your $3 per month subscription discount. And we have hit 20k subscribers, which is ridiculous!

(cheering)

MATT: I've just been notified that once we hit 25k subscribers, that goal, whenever we reach that, will be 25k and a talent show. I guess a lot of the hosts and people involved with this show and others have a lot of random weird-ass talents that they want to reveal on the internet, because what could possibly go wrong? So that's something to look forward to. And we'll have other things intermittently, giveaways and other goals, but that's the next big goal that's been put out there as far as I know, so I want to let you guys be aware of that.

LAURA: My talent includes taming otters. I wish.

MATT: Is it the otter taming finger?

LAURA: No, that's my other stupid talent. But I wanted an excuse to have an otter here.

TALIESIN: Shocking otters.

MARISHA: We missed the sloth, so if anyone wants to bring out an otter, I'd be okay with that, too.

TRAVIS: You didn't miss anything. It moved super fucking slow.

LAURA: Oh, it was magical.

ASHLEY: Maybe a baby panther.

MARISHA: That's so random, but I'm into it.

ASHLEY: I want one.

MATT: 22k and a red panda.

LAURA: 22k and a red panda! That's not official. 25k and a talent show, though, is real.

MARISHA: You're going to get an e-mail tomorrow being like: Matt.

MATT: Unofficial!

ASHLEY: I don't want any zoo animals.

LAURA: I don't want any badly poached animals taken from their environment.

MATT: Badly poached?

LAURA: I know, that was terrible.

SAM: I like a nicely poached animal.

MATT: There you go. Affectionately. All right, guys, so back in the game. As you guys find your way into the interior of Scanlan's magnificent mansion, the individual, the fey creature known as Garmelie, nervously walks along with you. What do you wish to do before an evening's rest is taken?

TRAVIS: I stand at the door like a sentry.

TALIESIN: Let's have some food. Let's put two guards on him.

SAM: I put 20 guards on him.

TALIESIN: 20 guards? That's a lot of guards.

MATT: A bunch of the servants (whoosh) shimmer out next to him and he's like (nervous whimper). “Hello.”

MARISHA: Guys, let's have a carpet picnic tonight. Can we have a carpet picnic?

LAURA: Is there a carpet here?

SAM: Yeah, there's carpet, but we have beds.

LAURA: Just a picnic?

MARISHA: Because we're in the Feywild. It seems appropriate.

TRAVIS: We're not in the Feywild. We're in the house.

TALIESIN: There's tables.

MARISHA: I just thought it would be fun.

LAURA: I would have a picnic with you, darling.

MARISHA: Thank you! I sit down next to the satyr and I stare at him like this, a little bit.

MATT: “Hi.”

SAM: What do we want to know from this little twerp?

LAURA: Why don't we eat, and we'll get to the questions in a little bit? Let's give him a rest. I shocked him when I abducted him.

MARISHA: Do you shed?

MATT: “A little.”

MARISHA: Do you grow a thicker coat during wintertime?

MATT: “Winter– seasons– It's not really a thing here.”

MARISHA: Do you grow horns?

MATT: “They grew.”

MARISHA: That's awesome.

TRAVIS: Would you care for any ale?

MATT: “Yes, please.”

TRAVIS: All right. I crack out the big-ass cask of ale.

LAURA: I would like some of that, as well, Grog.

LIAM: Pass it around.

MATT: You pass the ale around. He skulls it. (gulps)

TRAVIS: Well, all right, Tiny Toons. Nicely done.

LAURA: Can I pull Vax aside for a moment and ask: Do you want to go to Syngorn? We could avoid it.

LIAM: Well, we know no one here except for this guy. We need to find you that bow. I don't relish the idea of dealing with our father, but it seems like our best bet.

LAURA: Right. Of course. We should go see them.

LIAM: Are you sure you want to, though?

LAURA: Of course, why wouldn't I? Please. And I walk back to the group.

TRAVIS: I give the satyr another drink.

MATT: He greedily drinks it down.

MARISHA: Can I pet your fur? Is it coarse?

TRAVIS: Keyleth!

LAURA: Keyleth, that's a bit forward.

TRAVIS: You're so touchy today.

TALIESIN: I understand.

MATT: “So. If we're here to talk and make this deal we're discussing, what is it you want from me?”

TRAVIS: Is he looking any more drunk?

MATT: A slight slur.

LAURA: Can I have some more ale, as well, Grog? Keep it coming, all around.

TRAVIS: Yeah, fine.

TALIESIN: Honest opinion, what is the disposition of the people in that city over on the hill? You can be frank. We're not from around here. You can't offend us with your opinion of them.

MATT: “It's a busy place right now. We haven't seen the city of Syngorn in close to a hundred years, at the very least, and they have an entire army building up right now. It's hustle and bustle.”

TALIESIN: They have an army building up? Why is that?

MATT: “Hell if I know. I just wandered through and used that distraction to acquire a few things and make some fantastic notes.”

LAURA: Acquire what?

MATT: “Things.”

LAURA: Do you steal, darling?

MATT: “I don't steal. I borrow indefinitely.”

TALIESIN: You just pinch small things, though, like little gold trinkets. This is not really a talent of yours, is it?

LIAM: Are we talking klepto stealing, or career?

MATT: “I take things that look nice that I think I would want.”

MARISHA: Where do you steal these things? Are you a pickpocket?

MATT: “I am no simple street thief. I am a procurer of wayward items and objects that need a better home.”

TRAVIS: I think you should know that this door that you walked through in this big house, if you steal anything, it shreds you into ribbons when you leave.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: Fuck. Six.

MATT: “Oh, I'm sure it does, big man.”

ASHLEY: Well, it'll disappear if you take it.

LAURA: It certainly will.

MATT: “Well, good to know.”

LIAM: Chicken in your belly goes, though.

MATT: “Look, I'm not going to take anything from you. You've already proven far more of a match for me than I had ever anticipated, and what was meant to be a simple, fun game of follow and– follow has turned into a much more complicated circumstance, so I'd like to get it over with as soon as possible.”

MARISHA: Are you not having fun? We want you to at least enjoy yourself.

MATT: “My quill is gone! You've threatened me and my life!”

LAURA: I searched for it! Was it a special quill?

MATT: “It had sentimental value. I can get another.”

LAURA: I'm sorry.

MATT: “What do you want from me?”

SAM: We want you to take us to this place, this mirk place.

LAURA: The Shademirk.

MATT: “You want to go to the Shademirk? Whatever for? Why would you go to the Shademirk?”

LAURA: There's a very scary tree there.

MATT: “Yes. Why?”

LAURA: What do you know about the Shademirk?

MATT: “To stay the hell out of it, certainly. Want to go to the Shademirk? Be my guest!”

LIAM: A little more than that, friend. A little more.

TRAVIS: Your glass is looking empty.

MARISHA: You must know something, or else you wouldn't stay out of it.

MATT: He takes it from you. He sloshes it around and makes wild gestures. “It's a dangerous place. It's been a source of vileness and ichor here in the Feywild for hundreds of years. It's a terrible, horrible cesspool of nothing. I'm so sorry, this is getting everywhere.”

SAM: Don't worry, the servants will get it. It's terrible because of what dwells there, or because of the place itself?

MATT: “Both! All of it!”

SAM: What dwells there?

MATT: “Creatures, things, trollish slime creatures.”

LAURA: Do you have drawings? Have you drawn things from there?

MATT: “I sketched a thing or two.”

SAM: Which page?

TALIESIN: Flip, flip, flip.

MATT: You take a moment to scan through, and there are all sorts of creatures, all drawn stupidly, many with extra private parts coming out of shoulders and stuff. “Around page 163, 164.” And you see, and there are creatures all throughout, but at that page in particular, you see a lanky, tall humanoid that is oozing black, thick, viscous tar. It's shaded in a way where it looks like it has that glaze that only thick, oil-like substances really give off. And it's dragging this absolutely unnecessarily large dong behind it about four feet. Every picture looks pretty good to a point, and then you're like, “aw, really?”

LAURA: Garmelie, that creature. Is it very large?

MATT: “It's a little bigger than you.”

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: Gestures and takes his drink back.

MARISHA: Does it have a name? What's this called?

MATT: “I haven't gotten close enough to it.”

LIAM: But you know how to get there.

MATT: “I know how to get there, but it's not an easy, let alone safe, route.”

LAURA: Well, we'll protect you.

MATT: “So you're saying that as part of this agreement, I will be your guide to the outskirts of the Shademirk? Because I am not going in there.”

TRAVIS: If you want your book back.

LAURA: Have you heard of a very large– well, I don't know if it's large. A very scary tree there? Something poisoning the land?

MATT: “The land there is poisoned. I haven't gone in there myself. I'm sure there's many poison trees.”

TRAVIS: How far from here would you say it is?

MATT: “Day and a half, maybe? Duskward-seaward, maybe?”

TRAVIS: He's been very helpful. Maybe he could just point us in the direction.

SAM: No, we're taking him. We're taking him as far as we can. We need guides who know the land.

MATT: “Then let us make the other side of this agreement. You want me to be your guide, you'll give me back my book.” He sets the drink down. “Back my book, and–” He looks at the rest of you. “You seem to speak like you know thievery, yes?”

SAM: One of us is a member of a thieves' guild.

MATT: “There's a few things in that there dreary elvish city that I haven't the skills to procure, but if you wouldn't mind maybe borrowing them for me in my stead, well, we've a done deal.”

TRAVIS: Borrowing them indefinitely.

LIAM: What are we discussing, exactly?

SAM: Quid pro quo?

MATT: “If you will.”

LAURA: I've got no problem stealing from any of those people.

LIAM: Yes, but the devil's in the details. What are we after? Tell me a little bit more.

MATT: “We make the agreement first.”

LIAM: Say again?

MATT: “We make the agreement first. Consider it a bit of trust!”

LIAM: Balls is what that is.

TALIESIN: Let us add an addendum, then. If we are going to steal things from you, you will not only take us to the bog–

MARISHA: But you'll take us to our final destination.

MATT: “Nope, no. No Shademirk. I'm out. Sorry.”

SAM: Or we could kill you here.

TALIESIN: Are we killing people?

SAM: We could kill him.

TRAVIS: Do I get to grab him again?

MARISHA: Remember, you have to be nice to things in the Feywild. This is what we've learned.

SAM: We have a powerful position in negotiation. I'm a master negotiator.

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: What is he doing?

SAM: Who's getting whispered to? Percy? Percy goes blind again. Every five minutes.

TALIESIN: This is interesting. 17.

SAM: A roll and a re-whisper.

LAURA: The Feywild. Slippery. Sneaky.

SAM: This is crazy.

TALIESIN: Interesting.

SAM: He just said the C-word, the F-word, the G-word!

MATT: “If it's that important to you to go to this dark place, then keep the book, all right? I can draw more.”

TALIESIN: I've got an idea. We broke your ocarina, correct?

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: Why don't I try and fix the ocarina? We give him his book back, we take a couple things from those people and get on our way? We could just get on our way.

MARISHA: Not have him at all?

TALIESIN: No, let's make the deal and get this moving. This is a place where deals happen. Let's do it.

TRAVIS: But you're usually so picky about details. What if he asks us to steal somebody?

LIAM: We're talking about a pantsless cartoonist in the middle of fairy land.

TALIESIN: We agree to the deal, we present it, and then we're there.

LAURA: If we can't steal the things, then the deal is off.

MATT: “It's that simple. We both go our separate ways, and good luck finding the Shademirk on your own.”

TALIESIN: It's kismet, in my opinion.

LAURA: Well, I trust you, Percy, if you think it's smart.

ASHLEY: Can I insight check Percy? Because he's acting a little strange.

LIAM: Same.

MATT: You can make an insight check, but he's not acting too far out of his normal place here.

LIAM: Yeah, but I've done insight checks before because he's Percy.

LAURA: Did you do it?

ASHLEY: Yeah, but I didn't get anything.

LIAM: I got a 15. Balls.

MATT: It's an interestingly tense conversation. It's hard to ride one way or the other, but it's a valid point. If worse comes to worst, and what he's asking for is beyond your grasp or something that you wish not to do, then the deal is off and you go your separate ways.

TALIESIN: We're in the Feywild. We're going to make a deal with something. This is what the Feywild is.

TRAVIS: All right. Fine.

LIAM: I turn to Vex. You like this idea? You want to do this?

LAURA: I have no love for that city. I don't care.

TALIESIN: I want to go there, too.

MARISHA: The people we're stealing from better be meanies, though, and they better have deserved it at some point.

LAURA: Ultimately, I would love to ask them to help us in our fight. They're cowardly and stupid for hiding, but we could use their help if they're making an army.

LIAM: Possibly better equipped and better educated, sorry, than this one here.

MARISHA: Well, Garmelie also said they were strengthening up an army. Did they ever have a standing army before?

MATT: They did.

LAURA: They did? Of course they did. They're a city.

MATT: It wasn't a huge army, per se, but they had trained forces, and they had a means of defending their city.

LAURA: We had a fight instructor when we were growing up.

LIAM: They're elves. They're very civilized. They've all got sticks up their asses. They're fucking elves.

TALIESIN: I can't wait.

MATT: “I like this one.”

SAM: Are you going to fix his what-is-it-called?

TALIESIN: Give me your ocarina. Let me see if I can get to work on it.

MARISHA: I can help Percy.

SAM: I will inspire Percy by singing. (singing) Go ahead, Percy, and fix his ocarina! Take your tinkering tools and fix his ocarina! You go, Percival, you can fix his ocarina!

ALL: Hey, ocarina!

MATT: Take your d10.

MARISHA: Can I help with a Mending spell?

TALIESIN: You can help with a Mending spell.

MATT: Mending spell? Do you have the cantrip? Mending is a cantrip.

LIAM: I thought she used it once before on something.

MARISHA: I thought I used it as a ritual spell before.

LIAM: You fixed that little Sarenrae doll.

MATT: Right. So you have the spell, correct?

MARISHA: I thought I learned it. I don't know.

LIAM: Oh jeez, here comes the internet.

MATT: Cantrips you have at all times.

MARISHA: Can I use it as a 1st-level spell?

MATT: What cantrips do you know?

MARISHA: Guidance, Druidcraft. I used Druidcraft before, for the wooden thing. Can I use Druidcraft to help this?

MATT: How would you use Druidcraft?

MARISHA: What's it made out of? Is it made out of wood?

MATT: Actually, it's made out of clay, yeah.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to attempt to glue it together, and then I'm going to need something to hold the whole thing together while the glue sets.

MATT: Okay. Using what materials are within the workshop that you had before, there is a very mild adhesive paste that you construct. Go ahead and make a tinkering roll. This will be with your intelligence modifier.

TALIESIN: That was a natural 20.

MATT: Very rapidly, with the things that are given at your disposal, not even needing the materials here, but what you have on you as part of your traveling tinkering kit, you piece together a nearly unnoticeable binding agent for clay and dirt and earth-based materials. You manage to fix the ocarina rather quickly, in a period of maybe 20 minutes, and with the help of Keyleth's Druidcraft, dry it and manage to get it fixed.

TALIESIN: Your instrument, sir.

MATT: “Thank you. That's one good deed you've done me today. I appreciate that.”

TRAVIS: Don't forget about all them ales, yeah?

MATT: (whistles) It's awful. He doesn't really know how to play, and it's like (off-key singing).

TALIESIN: It's quite nice.

TRAVIS: At least you can always draw.

MATT: “If I can find my quill.”

LAURA: I'm sorry. I said I'm sorry. I looked for 20 fucking minutes. I looked, all right?

ASHLEY: I'm sure we could find you a quill.

LIAM: I've got one right fucking here. I pull the black feather out from behind my ear and hold it up. This is a very fine feather to sweeten the deal. Don't fuck us over. And I slide it into the book.

TRAVIS: Don't give him that, Vax. It's too nice!

LAURA: No, it is really nice! I know you're acting like he's lying, but he's telling the fucking truth.

SAM: Good lie, Grog.

LIAM: We've really been burned. I am really going to punch you in the back of the head if you fuck us over. Do you understand me? I don't like you.

MATT: “I like you! Well. Are we at an agreement?

LAURA: Sure, why not. Me?

SAM: Who's he shaking?

MATT: "Whoever your leader is! Shake my hand.”

LIAM: Here, give me your fucking hand, you dirty bastard.

MATT: Before you got your hand there, Vax, Vex put her hand in, and both of you guys clasp both sides of his hand at the same time. A trio handshake.

LIAM: I'm pretty sure he was talking to me.

LAURA: I'm pretty sure he was talking to me, actually.

MATT: All right, so you guys shake hands with him. You feel this shiver on your back as you shake hands, and he smiles. “Very well. Now, we've properly gotten acquainted. My sharper introductions are in order.” He stands up and wobbles for a second, a little drunk on the ale. "My name is Garmelie. I am a simple joy finder of the ever-shifting grasses, and I am happy to be your guide for the remainder of this journey to the outskirts of the Shademirk, and no further. Three things you wish you avoid as you progress further. As we are traveling through the Moonbrush, alongside the Green Sea– we could take one or the other, your choice. Eventually finding our way to the Gilded Run, and from there on to the Shademirk itself. I'll be leaving you at the outskirts of the Gilded Run, but it should suffice for the journey you wish to have ahead. Things you wish to avoid. One, the Hut of Wodenna. She's a terrible woman. You see a hut, don't go. You may smell enticing things.”

LIAM: Odenna?

MATT: “Wodenna. Delightful smells, sounds of soft music, a gentle light across the shade and sea. Two words at once. I'm drunk. But do not go near the hut. Avoid the hut. No hut! Two. Avoid the Last Campsite of Sorudun the Happy.”

SAM: Sounds nice.

LIAM: Yeah, that sounds fun.

MATT: “Avoid it. Trust me, avoid it. If there's a campsite that's empty, looks happy? Avoid it. And three, avoid the theater.”

SAM: I love the theater!

LIAM: Oh, that's good advice, actually.

MATT: “Avoid the theater.”

SAM: Just in general, the theater?

MATT: “In general. I hate all theater. Let's avoid the theater, please!”

SAM: I do an insight check.

MATT: Do it.

SAM: I don't know what I have. Terrible. 13.

MATT: He seems pretty perturbed by the idea of theater.

LIAM: I'm changing my mind on this guy.

LAURA: Why should we avoid the hut? What does Wodenna do?

MATT: “She's been around a while.”

LAURA: She's a hag? Is she a hag?

MATT: “That's a name. Best to avoid. Trust me.”

SAM: We do nothing but trust you.

MATT: “Great. Wondrous. And who are you, by the way?”

MARISHA: We're Vox Machina.

SAM: The Slayer's Take.

MATT: “Vox Machina Slayer's Take. Very well. Pleasure to meet you all, Vox Machina Slayer's Take.” He holds his drink out for you to fill again.

TRAVIS: How many fingers am I holding up?

MATT: “I don't care. Thank you. Now, the deal is made, drink's been had, introductions have been properly given. I think it's time for bed.” He takes two steps forward, (thud) face-first in the center of the main area, and starts snoring loudly.

LAURA: Maybe we should move him to a safe location that we can lock.

LIAM: With those 20 guards, right, Scanlan?

ASHLEY: Can I take his ocarina? Just for the night?

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

ASHLEY: He's asleep, so do I get advantage or something?

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

MATT: You sneak forward, and in a move that would've made Vax proud, you pull the ocarina from his grasp, show it to the rest of the party, and tuck it away.

ASHLEY: I look over at Vax and give him a wink. And Vex!

LIAM: That was primo, baby.

ASHLEY: Thanks.

SAM: Hey, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah?

SAM: You've got magic. I don't entirely trust this thing. We were told specifically not to trust anything. Do you have any spell that can do true-seeing, or that can restore him if he's putting on this form, or that can dispel some charm that he has around him or some aura?

LAURA: Maybe some sort of magical thing that he put on me, because I'm pretty sure he cast something on me and my brother.

MARISHA: Really? What happened? What did you feel?

LAURA: A shiver. When we shook his hand.

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah.

ASHLEY: He never told us what he wanted you to get, what he wanted to steal.

TALIESIN: No, he hasn't.

SAM: Pikey, do you have something that can reveal some truth or dispel magic from him?

MARISHA: I actually have Dispel Magic right now.

LAURA: Can we try it? On me and my brother, see if it cancels out whatever he just did?

MARISHA: I'll touch Vex and cast Dispel Magic and see if anything happens. Wait, take off all magical items first.

LAURA: Everything I'm wearing is magic.

MARISHA: Well, take it off.

TRAVIS: Yeah, take it off!

LAURA: What is it about this dimension that makes us get naked all the time?

SAM: The hat is not magic. You can leave that on.

LAURA: Thank you. So I take off everything except for the hat.

MARISHA: I don't want to risk dispelling anything.

LIAM: I'm taking a short walk, all right.

TALIESIN: Every time I've seen anything attractive and naked, it's gone very poorly today. I'm walking away.

MARISHA: It's like wearing metal in a really hot sauna. You just don't do it. Come on.

MATT: Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: All right. I'll do the big guy. Come on, big guy. Oh, that's okay. My wisdom, just my modifier? 22.

MATT: Okay. You cast the spell.

ASHLEY: Do you feel different?

MARISHA: That was a very high wisdom roll. Do you feel anything?

LAURA: Do I feel anything?

MATT: You didn't feel anything in particular.

TRAVIS: Give it a minute. It might take a while to take effect. Maybe do some jumping jacks.

LAURA: I'm definitely putting my clothes back on.

MARISHA: I can also try a Regeneration spell.

SAM: Wait. I think I can do something. I can sing a song. That's mostly what I do, if you haven't noticed by now. I have a power that I never ever use. It's called Countercharm. I can counter charms.

MATT: As they're being cast. So you still can't use it.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to start gathering the servants to pick the boy up and put him in his room.

MATT: And the 20 guards lift his form and carry him off.

TRAVIS: Don't let him steal any of our shit.

TALIESIN: Everything would disappear, anyway.

TRAVIS: No, I mean our personal shit.

LAURA: Lock the door.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but what if he can do Scanlan's thing where he goes through the door?

MARISHA: I have a feeling if he shook your hand and did something, like Scanlan said, it's probably a Pike thing, like a Remove Curse. It's got to be something more like that. Mine is all nature-based. I can try to Regenerate you, but I don't think this would fall under that.

TRAVIS: She's fine. It was a draft. She needs to wear more clothes. It's all right.

ASHLEY: Do you feel different?

LAURA: No, not anymore.

MARISHA: I have a feeling it's like if you stray from a contract or something, you might feel it. I don't know. That's what I would think.

TRAVIS: I'll go to bed. And I sleep on all of my weapons and stuff. They're under me, on top of the mattress.

MATT: Perfect. Everyone else go to bed?

MARISHA: I put a blanket over the satyr, and I pet him, now that he's asleep. Is his fur coarse, or is it soft?

MATT: It's pretty coarse.

LAURA: That is really creepy.

TRAVIS: Creepy, unconsented petting farm.

MARISHA: Okay, good night.

TALIESIN: I make sure everything's fine. I will leave him his book, lock the door, and head up to my room and lock the door behind me, as well.

SAM: I stayed up all night reading.

MARISHA: Are you going to take a point of exhaustion for that?

SAM: I have to.

LAURA: I get very little sleep. I'm having trouble sleeping.

TRAVIS: You are?

MATT: All right. So this is your second level of exhaustion.

SAM: No, I slept last time.

MATT: Oh, that's right! You did sleep. Correct. So you do take another point of exhaustion now, so you're back to one point of exhaustion. So all your ability checks are at disadvantage.

ASHLEY: How long does that take?

TALIESIN: A week.

ASHLEY: It takes a week? To memorize it?

SAM: I think it was 48 hours of reading over a period of six days.

LAURA: Oh jeez.

SAM: Yeah.

ASHLEY: How close?

SAM: I'm on day four, I believe. And I'm up to 36 hours now, if this counts as ten, 12 hours.

ASHLEY and LAURA: Wow.

MARISHA: So you're close. Yeah, you're doing good.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Anyone else doing anything?

MARISHA: I sleep, and I dream of fireflies and the Feywild because it's so magical.

MATT: There you go.

ASHLEY: I'm going to get up early, but yeah.

LAURA: I'm going to get up early and try to fix my hair and make it as pristine as I can and try to clean off my clothes and everything before we go.

LIAM: I sleep like a baby in my armor.

MATT: All right. Percy, as you're getting ready to go to bed, you feel this strange tickle at the back of your head that dissipates.

TALIESIN: Is it what I think it is?

MATT: It is the fading of a Charm Person spell.

TALIESIN: Okay. Goddamn it.

MARISHA: Son of a fuck.

TALIESIN: And as I'm going to bed? Or as I wake up?

MATT: As you're going to bed.

TALIESIN: Okay. Fuck.

TRAVIS: Did you fuck us?

LAURA: Percy was charmed.

TALIESIN: No, you don't know anything yet. I'm not quite going to go to sleep yet. I'm going to go see who else is still awake.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan is reading in his room with the door slightly ajar.

SAM: Yes?

TALIESIN: The little fucker charmed me.

SAM: I knew it! I suspected it! That's why I tried to use Countercharm, but I don't know how to use it.

(laughter)

SAM: Apparently, it's some sort of preemptive thing. I have to read about it. Oh shit, I'm already reading this! Goddamn it!

(laughter)

SAM: Anyway. What do you think we should do?

TALIESIN: I don't know what we can do.

SAM: Wait. When were you charmed? What did it affect? What decisions did you make today that were key?

TALIESIN: We made a bloody deal with him.

SAM: Well, we can always back out on the deal.

TALIESIN: Well, no, we can't, really.

SAM: What, is there some sort of blood pact that we made?

TALIESIN: (sputtering) I don't know exactly how it works. It's just in any book you read about the Feywild, you make a deal and it's a deal and you have to deal with it.

SAM: What does mean? You and I could go down to his room right now and kill him and be done with it.

TALIESIN: I don't think that would work.

SAM: Would we be cursed?

TALIESIN: Maybe?

SAM: Haunted forever?

TALIESIN: Probably.

SAM: Oh man. That sucks. I don't want to be haunted. That's for you and Vax!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You would look lovely in eyeliner.

SAM: No baggage, man, no baggage. What do we do? We made a deal with a devil of some sort.

TALIESIN: It was inevitable.

SAM: Is there a way to trick the trickster into releasing us from the deal?

TALIESIN: Could be.

SAM: Because, you know, I'm a sly talker.

LIAM: When did this show turn into Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead?

(laughter)

MATT: Right now.

TALIESIN: Right now. I'm going to have to tell the others in the morning. I'm going to go see if anybody else is awake. Oh god. Sleep well. Oh, you're reading. Never mind. Don't sleep.

SAM: Now I've got to read about the fucking fey, too.

TALIESIN: No. Finish your bloody book.

MATT: Keyleth is at rest, Grog is at rest, Vax is at rest. Vex is still up, cleaning your garments, you said, right? And Pike, you went to bed but are waking up early, correct? So essentially, it's just Vex who's awake.

TALIESIN: Vex.

LAURA: Yes?

TALIESIN: Little shit put a charm on me. I felt it wear off about 45 minutes ago.

LAURA: Before we made the deal with him?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Fuck, Percy! I made the deal because you said it was fine!

TALIESIN: Well, I–

LAURA: It's fine. You didn't know. Well.

TALIESIN: Well, at least we know that he definitely can't be trusted.

LAURA: It's our own stupid fault. We knew we weren't supposed to trust anything here.

TALIESIN: I know. We've got to make sure that Pike doesn't give him back his whistle, just yet.

LAURA: Why did you want to fix his whistle? You just liked him.

TALIESIN: He was so nice! He was just so nice.

LAURA: Damn it. I thought you knew something we didn't know. I really thought you did.

TALIESIN: I did. It's sadly what I knew was he's a little shit. I just didn't know until about half an hour ago. I hate magic!

LAURA: Percy. Change of subject. Would you say I look put together? Well off? With this armor.

TALIESIN: In what sense?

LAURA: Well, you come from money, right?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Right, so do I look like I come from money?

TALIESIN: Does she look like she comes from money?

MATT: That's entirely up to your opinion. You know the attire she wears; you've traveled with her. It's based on what you want to base that judgment on, whether it be pure looks, the person inside. It's whatever Percival thinks she would be in his eyes.

SAM: (quietly) She's naked in a hat.

TALIESIN: (laughs) Honestly, dear, you're too happy to look like you come from money.

LAURA: (laughs) I don't believe that.

TALIESIN: No, it's a sure sign of it, is an abject misery, believe me. I can speak to it. You look too much like you, and you don't look enough like something you're supposed to be. If you feel the urge to deeply bullshit, I'd be happy to help you. It's not hard.

LAURA: No?

TALIESIN: No. It is easy to pretend you come from money. You just have to be a bit of a shit and wear what everybody else is wearing. Does this have something to do with that city? It does, doesn't it. Who's there?

LAURA: Well, you know. Everyone. We were judged, growing up, and I don't look forward to seeing that again.

TALIESIN: (sighs) Well.

LAURA: It's not important.

TALIESIN: Oh, I disagree. Dear, I think that if you're worried about them knowing whether or not you've made your money and made your fortune– I don't think that's going to be the thing to earn their respect. I think you're better off, A, with the company that you keep, and B, with the fact that you're probably just better than most of them.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I've known a lot of people with money, and they are definitely not worth you. And besides, if they have something nice that makes you feel inferior, we can just take it.

LAURA: (laughs) I like the way you think.

TALIESIN: Well, and then they're just shit without anything, and then you're you with their stuff.

LAURA: Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're welcome. I know it doesn't really help.

LAURA: Will you stay at my side when we're there?

TALIESIN: Yes. And the outfit works. Don't change it. Keep the hat.

LAURA: (laughs) All right. Good night.

TALIESIN: Good night. Sleep well.

LAURA: We'll sort out this charmed mess in the morning.

TALIESIN: I'm sorry for my part in it.

MATT: So you guys go your separate ways. You find yourself eventually to bed as the rest of the group is asleep. Vex, you take a bit of solace in the conversation, finish cleaning your things, though it doesn't seem like the incessant scrubbing you were driven on has much purpose, nor the impact you thought it might at this point, and you resign yourself to sleep for the evening. As the evening comes to a close, Pike, you wake up early. As you come out of your room, you struggle with the view of 20 guards slowly shifting through the foyer as a very hungover and groaning satyr begins clomping through the main foyer, going, “Breakfast, please? Please, breakfast?”

ASHLEY: Yes. Follow me to the kitchen.

MATT: “Yes! Someone they listen to! Thank you!” Rubbing his eyes as he follows you into the kitchen. He comes up onto one of the long benches in the center of one of the main dining tables.

ASHLEY: I put down a cup of coffee for him, and I run into the kitchen and get a very large– oh no.

MATT: “Are you poisoning me?!”

ASHLEY: What's wrong?

MATT: “What is this?”

ASHLEY: It's coffee?

MATT: “I don't like coffee.”

ASHLEY: Oh. What do you want?

MATT: “Something that's not coffee.”

ASHLEY: Okay. Can we get him something that's not coffee?

MATT: The servants look at each other, confused, and wander off and come back with a carafe of an apple juice.

ASHLEY: Apple juice will be great.

MATT: “That is familiar. Thank you.” He takes the carafe.

ASHLEY: I run in the kitchen really quick and get a very large piece of butcher paper.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Okay. So. Garmelie.

MATT: “Yes.”

ASHLEY: I think you're so talented, and I wanted to ask if maybe you could draw a family portrait for us. The most ridiculous you can make it.

MATT: “What do you mean?”

ASHLEY: Just of all of us. I want to hang it above the mantel before everybody wakes up.

MATT: “Well, it's hard to do without seeing the subjects, but if you want to fill in the details?”

ASHLEY: Yeah, fill in the details.

MATT: “All right. Well, I need a quill or some charcoal.”

ASHLEY: Vax gave you a quill last night.

MATT: “He gave me a feather. It has to be refined into a quill.”

ASHLEY: Oh, I forgot. I think there's one in the kitchen.

MATT: There is no quill in the kitchen, but glancing around and asking the servants, there are pieces of charcoal. There is charcoal available, sketch charcoal.

ASHLEY: Okay. Can you use charcoal?

MATT: “Of course.”

ASHLEY: Great.

MATT: “All right.”

ASHLEY: Have at it.

MATT: “You first?”

ASHLEY: Sure.

MATT: “All right.”

SAM: It's Leonardo and Winslet.

ASHLEY and MARISHA: Draw me like one of your French girls!

MATT: You hear the gentle lyrical stylings of Celine Dion swell in background as the satyr quickly begins sketching your charcoal form.

ASHLEY: And remember, very ridiculous.

MATT: “I don't know what that means, but I'll do my best.” In rapid time, faster than anyone you've ever seen sketch, his form almost becomes blurred with the haste in which he draws, and within the hour, he has completed an extremely well-detailed portrait. And I mean portrait, as everyone is standing shoulder to shoulder like a family above a mantel, and it is grotesque. Horrifying. You look like perhaps the Trickfoots had been keeping the bloodline strong for a very long period of time. Droopy face, one eye sinking below the other. You don't even have the right number of fingers. You see Grog in the back, who is as wide as the rest of everybody, is behind them, this giant wall with this tiny little head, with a tongue lolling out to the side. It looks like he has one finger as a thumbs-up and the other one's up his bum. In the front, you see Vex and Vax, the twins, are furiously making out in a really horrible display, clutching each other. It's terrifying. Keyleth is currently clutching the side of a tree happily, and as she does, her eyes are going in different directions, and the tree itself is trying to push her off the branch. You see Percy, who is extremely tall with this squat, thin head with these giant glasses that make his eyes bug-eyed and strange. You see a little bit of scruff on the chin that's actually turning into this long, awful, matted dingleberry mess of a goatee, and he has both of his guns pointed at his head. Next to that is a perfectly defined, unchanged portrait of Scanlan Shorthalt.

ASHLEY: I just wanted to hear you explain it. So I'm going to take it and I'm going to paste it above the mantel. I'm going to go back upstairs to my room.

MATT: Okay. Eventually you all come to consciousness, brought to the wonderful, welcome morning scent of, once again, a chickenful breakfast. You find yourselves down to a once again passed-out satyr, slumped over the breakfast table with two plates of mostly devoured chicken, mashed potatoes, and a couple other side elements.

LAURA: That sounds so good.

MATT: There above, on the mantel across the room, is a glorious sketch of the family of Vox Machina.

TALIESIN: Charming.

SAM: Who changed my– oh, I look pretty good.

MARISHA: This is brilliant. Wait, Scanlan, why do you look normal?

SAM: I think we all look normal, actually. That's how I see us, sure.

LAURA: This picture is disgusting.

MARISHA: I love it.

TALIESIN: No, that is awful.

MARISHA: You guys, we have a souvenir! We have a souvenir from the Feywild!

TRAVIS: I think he wants a beating. That's what he wants.

LAURA: I flick his head.

MATT: “Yes, what? What? Hi!”

TRAVIS: Why would you do that when we've been so hospitable?

MATT: “It's a gift.” Make a persuasion check.

ASHLEY: 15.

MATT: He goes, “I thought I'd leave you a little present.”

ASHLEY: I love it.

LAURA: Well, it's gross, but everybody else looks quite wonderful.

TALIESIN: I sit down, right in front and across the table.

TRAVIS: I guess I don't mind. At least I'm big.

TALIESIN: I like it.

LIAM: I think it's gross.

MATT: “Eat up, and we'll be on our way!” He notices the tension from Percy and Grog.

TALIESIN: No, not yet. Not yet. Just so all cards are on the table, we know that we agreed to a deal last night, despite your charm spell on me, which was–

MATT: “Defending myself! As was warranted.”

TALIESIN: Fair play.

TRAVIS: You got charmed?

LAURA: I do think we should inform you, though, we may have used a little magic on you. Sorry. Just to make sure the deal was solid.

MATT: “I'm certain that was a necessary precaution.”

TALIESIN: Well, the deal stands as it is at the moment, I suppose.

MATT: “Wondrous. I had hoped as such, because we have much to gain.”

ASHLEY: Wait.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, he charmed me. He put a charm on me last night.

ASHLEY: I had a feeling.

LIAM: So you no longer think it's a good idea to enter into this agreement?

TALIESIN: Well, a little late.

MATT: “It is a little late.”

ASHLEY: You never told us what you wanted.

MATT: “I'm going to show you.”

LAURA: You're going to walk us right in.

MATT: “Something like that.”

TRAVIS: Well, might as well.

MARISHA: What are you going to do?

SAM: Why don't you pet his legs again, weirdo?

MARISHA: You fascinate me.

MATT: “Good. That's not the first time I've heard that.”

TALIESIN: Friend, I applaud your cleverness. I am excited by this deal, and I want to let you know that, god forbid something comes up, where I come from, the world I come from, I am possibly the worst person you have ever met. And I think, I hope, not necessarily to hurt you or harm you, but I hope that one day you can know just how awful I can be.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

TALIESIN: 17.

MATT: (stuttering) “I hope it never comes to that.”

TALIESIN: Let's hope.

MATT: “I can make addendums to the art piece, if you're unhappy.”

TALIESIN: I love the art piece. Actually, since we're on the subject, have you ever drawn yourself before?

MATT: “Many times.”

TALIESIN: I'd be curious to see one of your self portraits. Are they in the book?

MATT: “No.”

TALIESIN: I didn't think so. Self-reflection is not one of my favorite pastimes, either. Anyway, what are you looking for in the city?

MATT: “I'll show you. As part of the agreement, it'll be unveiled upon arrival.”

SAM: Sounds good to me.

LAURA: That's not sneaky at all. I fully trust you.

MATT: “Great. Now, finish your food! Much to do. Much to see. Much to take.”

LAURA: I hate him now.

MATT: (off-key music)

MARISHA: No. We did that for you. Do not abuse this. That's right.

ASHLEY: What are you doing with your hands?

MATT: “Where did– What?”

TALIESIN: Where did what?

MATT: “They giveth, and they take away.”

TALIESIN: Bless the small print.

MATT: “Well, then. Eat well.” And he makes his way toward the door, and the guards stop him there. “I'll just sit here, then.” And sits on the floor, waiting for you guys to finish.

LAURA: What sort of magic did you cast on us?

MATT: “What do you mean?”

LAURA: What was the deal we agreed to? What will happen if it breaks?

MATT: “Deals are meant to be kept. Should you go against a deal that you've made, especially in here, these realms, there are consequences, so don't stray from the deal.”

TALIESIN: I think it's just a deal. I think deals may be a big deal here.

SAM: So we can still kill him?

TALIESIN: I don't know. I think if it comes to it, it's a possibility.

MARISHA: What happened to don't hurt or touch anything in the Feywild?

LAURA: Yeah, we fucked that up, didn't we?

ASHLEY: Can I take out his ocarina and play a couple of notes while I'm looking at him?

MATT: Sure. Make a performance check.

SAM: Performance check?

TALIESIN: That's a thing.

TRAVIS: Is this your first performance check?

SAM: You're definitely the right person to be doing this.

ASHLEY: Yeah, right. 13.

MATT: 13. In a very rudimentary, kindergarten recorder way: (off-key music) It's a little shaky, but you get the hang of it. It's the only sound in the room. It's dead quiet as you do this in the middle of breakfast, with food being brought to the table.

LAURA: That was amazing, Pike.

LIAM: Move over, Scanlan. Holy hell, that was good.

ASHLEY: Thanks. I learned once.

LAURA: I don't think I've ever seen anyone play an instrument that well.

SAM: Wait, hey. This is my house.

LIAM: Oh, look, the satyr's sad. What's the matter, friend?

MATT: “She has my ocarina.”

LAURA: Oh, that's terrible. Poor guy.

TALIESIN: You're clever. I'm sure you'll be fine.

ASHLEY: Maybe we'll give it back to you, but I know what you did to my friend with this little thing, so I'm not going to give it back to you. Not just yet.

MATT: “Eat your breakfast.”

ASHLEY: Already did.

LIAM: Somebody get this poor asshole a handkerchief. He looks so sad.

MATT: He sits there and pouts. As you guys finish your meal, laughing and enjoying yourselves.

MARISHA: As he pouts, I Druidcraft a little flower crown for him.

MATT: He somehow recedes even further into his grumpy self, his neck disappearing as his head pulls into his torso.

MARISHA: He's so fun to mess with.

LAURA: We are really shit at making friends.

TRAVIS: So I'm curious. While we're eating, would you happen to tell us what our first objective might be?

LAURA: He's going to show us.

TALIESIN: I think it's time to make our way in.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm full.

ASHLEY: I'm going to walk over to Scanlan. Scanlan!

SAM: What?

ASHLEY: I'm going to give this to you.

SAM: The Macarena?

ASHLEY: Yeah. Because I don't like performing.

SAM: You're really good at it.

ASHLEY: That's a lie. Just take this and maybe you can charm some people with it. I don't know if that's what it is, but I don't want him to have it.

SAM: Thank you. I will try my best.

ASHLEY: All right. Let's go.

TALIESIN: Can't believe I wasted a natural 20 on his– Sorry. I'm good.

MATT: You guys finish your breakfast. The guards come with you and escort you and your ally outside the door. As you exit, the–

MARISHA: Wait. Take and roll up the painting, the charcoal drawing that he did and put it in the Bag of Holding.

LAURA: It's going to disappear as soon as we take it out! Leave it in the mansion. That way it'll stay.

TALIESIN: It's from the mansion, so it'll stay in the mansion.

MARISHA: Will it stay in the mansion?

MATT: You've tried taking things out of the mansion, and they've turned to dust.

MARISHA: But I know things will also get ejected from the mansion. Okay, I'll leave it.

MATT: You take it down, talk, put it back up. No worries. As you guys exit the mansion, the dusk light of the sky has not changed. You get the idea here, at least since you've arrived, that there has been no movement in the sun. You haven't even seen the sun. The light source of dusk beyond the distant mountains and horizon is stuck in the dusk hour, with the threat and curl of midnight in the opposite direction, the dark blue coming over the horizon, unmoving. It also is raining gently. There is a rather heavy cloud that has come over, and it's not a terrible downpour, but a gentle rainfall has been here for a while, and the floor between the grasses is quite slushy as you step out. (squelch)

SAM: Let's go to the city.

MARISHA: Vex? Should we be dressing for the occasion? Should we put on our nice cloaks?

TALIESIN: We do have nice cloaks we could wear.

SAM: I think we're going to be sneaking in to steal things.

LAURA: No, there's no way we could sneak in.

LIAM: We're going to go in and make introductions and get settled and then figure out what the fuck we're doing.

MARISHA: Yeah, cloak me.

LAURA: With what?

MARISHA: Our nice cloaks.

LAURA: He has some fancy cloaks, unless he's used them all.

TALIESIN: Am I still made of wood, by the way?

MATT: No, that faded with the night's rest.

TRAVIS: I don't have fancy robes. I do have your fancy winter stuff.

TALIESIN: It's raining. It's not like Hawaii rain. It's rain, I would assume? It's not chilly, but cold.

MARISHA: I'll cloak up. Try and look like I made some sort of effort.

TRAVIS: All right, Keyleth gets a cloak. Do you want some nice shit?

TALIESIN: Oh, yes.

LIAM: I'm not changing anything.

SAM: How long will it take to get to the city from where we are?

MATT: A few hours, maybe.

LAURA: Can't you craft something to keep the rain off of us?

MARISHA: I'll do a little cantrip Gust over top of us to make one of those air umbrellas that would never work in real life.

MATT: Okay. You guys would have to get close together to do that, but it's doable as a cantrip. She keeps this general revolving sphere of wind above that scatters most of the rain to the sides. For the most part, Grog, you still get pretty damp because of your size and difficulty, but most everyone else can stay pretty dry as you cluster together, walking through the grass. You travel for another hour or so before the grass towards the outskirts of the mountain range in the city begins to slowly subside. It grows thinner and shorter, and you come to a bit of marshland, almost. Treeless, open marshland with little bushes in clusters. Anything you guys want to–

LAURA: Perception check? See if I can see anything moving ahead of us?

MATT: Okay, perception check.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: Okay. As you guys begin walking into the marsh, you can see there are areas where it's elevated mud patches, where it's very shallow water, maybe an inch at most, and there are a few different areas that get noticeably deep and murky. You watch to avoid those elements. You're not sure what might be beneath, if anything, but you naturally move through this terrain carefully. You do notice that, occasionally, upon this walk, you see, different from the rest of the bushes and pieces of terrain, these deep bluish purple sprout leaves, almost like carrot tops, very leafy plant top emerges in places, occasionally clusters of two or three. There aren't a lot of them, but many of them occur throughout the walk in this swampy landscape.

LAURA: Garmelie? What are these?

MATT: “Oh, these are best to be avoided. They're mandrake. Don't disturb them. Don't pull them out. "Don't do anything with them.”

MARISHA: Mandrakes? Oh, cool.

LAURA: Let's leave it.

TALIESIN: I've read things about those.

LAURA: What's this?

TALIESIN: That's just a thing. Just read it.

LIAM: It's a potted screaming baby. Leave them.

MATT: “Best left to the side.” You guys make your way through the marsh, occasionally passing by the mandrake tops, until it begins to subside, the marshland itself, and you come towards the base of the city before you. You see a massive, ivy-covered wall of jade-like stone surrounding a dense cluster of towering trees unlike those in any of the surrounding forests or the one you left. It is an open plain, and then within the city walls, there are trees emerging many stories into the air. Trees that you guys recognize have always been there. These trees came with the city, and they're actually from the Verdant Expanse where Syngorn usually resides. As you walk closer, you can see large sealed gates every so often along the outer wall. Every so often, you see these gates embedded in the wall, housing a massive emblem of a crescent moon flanked by two trees over a deep cerulean stone about two feet across. Twins, you know these as the threshold crests. These are the enchanted crests that enable the city to travel back and forth between the Feywild, should it be necessary. They're powerful, and they're rarely utilized, as the journey is not always accurate. It seemingly did so this time. Make a perception check, guys.

TRAVIS: Everybody or just the twins?

MATT: Everybody who's paying attention.

SAM: I'm not. I'm reading.

LAURA: This is not woods anymore? This is not forest? Is this marsh?

MATT: Just past marsh into flatland. 20?

MARISHA: 21.

LAURA: 21.

LIAM: 21.

ASHLEY: 15.

MATT: Okay. You guys continue towards the front of the gate. There's nobody on the outside of it. It's a solid, outside city. You can see white and gray tower spires that streak up from inside, some of which are entwined by trees that wrap around the base and cluster around the center of the tower's height, like its own canopy belt, if you will. As you get even closer still, you can see the white walls themselves are replaced with heavy gold and brass, gold-leaf edging across the top, and at each one of the various nooks where the solid stone walls are adjoined, this is a very intricately carved and well-crafted wall. Probably as part of the enchantment that was placed on it, amongst others, to keep it defended. You get about a hundred feet from the wall before you, Vex, hear (scrape) a quick sound. You leap back instinctually as all of you watch a series of bolts and arrows (arrow impacts) across the floor right in front of you.

SAM: That's exciting.

MATT: You all stop in place.

SAM: Should we attack?

MARISHA: I look up on the wall. Is it coming from archers on the wall?

MATT: You can now see, up on the wall, dozens of figures atop, with longbows, and some with crossbows, drawn and nocked, trained on all of you.

LAURA: I take my hood down. You know us. We're here to see my father.

MATT: There's a pause, and they're still 100 feet away from you. One of the voices says, “Who is us, if I might ask?”

LAURA: The twins. Vex'ahlia and Vax'ildan.

LIAM: Syldor's children.

MATT: There's a little bit of a conversation. You see a couple of figures disappear behind the wall. About five minutes pass, and as you guys get a little fidgety or one of you makes a swift movement, you can see the drawn bows tense up. They're trained on any movement you guys give at this moment. As time passes, an individual steps up to the top of the wall, adorned in similar Syngorian armor, but the helmet is taken off, and you see a woman with deep crimson hair braided to one side and shaved on the other. She steps up and looks out. “Vex'ahlia. Vax'ildan.”

LAURA: Do we know who she is?

MATT: “The Vessar twins return. Do I know why? What is your business here in Syngorn?”

LAURA: We came to speak to our father.

MATT: “And the rest of your company?”

LIAM: They're with us.

MATT: Make a persuasion check, both of you.

LIAM: 20.

LAURA: 14. I'll stop using that one tonight.

MATT: “Come forth to the gate. Relieve your arrows, please.” The guards all take their bows off of you and release the tension in the strings. The woman turns and steps off the wall again. You can see the very front gate, the front of the wall, opens ever so slightly, about a five-foot gap left.

LIAM: Everybody, let my sister and I do the talking for a minute. Thank you. I scoop up my sister's hand, down by my side, and walk forward.

MATT: As you guys walk single file, continuing towards the city, your satyr friend stays in the very back behind you, clutching. (whimpering) As you glance back, Grog, he's not there.

LAURA: Can you still feel him? Oh, sorry.

TRAVIS: Can I reach down to where he was?

MATT: Still tugging, he's holding on to you, but has lost visibility.

TRAVIS: Clever little spider monkey.

MATT: As you guys approach, there waiting at the side of the gate within are about ten guards and this individual. She looks a little more battle-hardened and wasn't elevated before, was just one of the guards when you were children, but this is Iova. Now Watcher Iova, the Watchers which guard the wall. She appears to be of an elevated status within the Watchers of Syngorn. As you approach, she lowers her head in a respectful bow, but still not breaking eye contact, and has an aloof and distanced expression.

LAURA: Watcher Iova. Nice to see you have elevated yourself.

MATT: “Time has passed since you were finding your own path. Surprised to see you return here, especially so far from the material realms.”

LIAM: Then you can imagine there is great cause for us to be here.

MATT: “Is your father aware of your arrival?”

LAURA: No.

MATT: “He is now. You and your guests will be watched. You will be followed, until otherwise given proof and permission from individuals higher than my station within the city, preferably your father.”

LAURA: I would expect nothing less.

MATT: “Now, go. And welcome to Syngorn.” She turns around, puts her helmet on, and half the guard walk away, while another six remain behind, keeping watch.

TALIESIN: Interesting.

MARISHA: Not quite a warm welcome.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't expect one.

LAURA: I guess we should probably make our way straight to– so we can have free rein.

LIAM: I motion for the rest to come up behind.

MATT: As the rest of you approach and find your way within the city walls, you're met with an astounding cityscape. Hundreds of homes and buildings and sanctuaries, formed with a natural grace and keen architectural mind as to seem almost grown from the trees and earth themselves. Upon closer look and a nearby inspection, you can see the craftsmanship, but from a distance, it's almost like they were born from the materials, than they were built or crafted. You can see distant magical lantern light shines all across the city, like the start of a glittering snowfall, as the rest of the streets themselves are ever lit by these little shining beacons. The center of the ageless place is divided by a grand lake of pure blue water, a roiling mist drifting across the surface, obscuring the view of boats currently on the surface of the water. You do notice a large military presence within the city, as the armored guard of Syngorn, these individuals, the armored military force known as the Verdant Guard, are walking throughout the city. Not with a hurried pace, but there is a general tension in the air, far more than you've ever seen in all the years that you did spend in your youth within Syngorn. That's where we'll finish our session for the evening.

LAURA: Shit.

ASHLEY: I felt like we were just getting started.

MATT: It's 10:30, though.

ASHLEY: How?

LAURA: I guess you just have to fly in next week, too!

ASHLEY: I wish I could.

MATT: As I look down and once again notice my Tick Spoons shirt I've had on the entire evening, my overshirt seems to have been shortening it to–

TRAVIS: Poon!

ASHLEY: Oh, I noticed.

MATT: Or even better–

MARISHA: Poo!

LAURA: Well, that's okay. It says Spoon.

MATT: Spoon! It's intended to be. It all works fine. Both ways it's the new Scanlan shirt. Poon and poo! Scanlan Shorthalt. Autobiography. Well, great, guys! Thank you so much. We'll be picking up the next length of this journey in the reunion of Vex and Vax with their father, Syldor Vessar.

MARISHA: Syldor. Such a dipshit.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. At the live show.

LIAM: Live show, no pressure.

TALIESIN: I am so excited.

MATT: And you did notice that they were referred to as the Vessar twins.

TRAVIS: Vessar twins?

SAM: What does that even mean?

LAURA: That's our dad's stupid last name.

SAM: Vessar? Vax and Vex Vessar?

MATT: Whether they use the name, that's up to them, and I don't think that they do. But that it is. All right, folks, we'll see you guys, some of you, live at the– well, we'll see you all live next week, but some of you we'll see at the actual venue in person.

TRAVIS: Thank you to Loot Crate.

MATT: You guys are awesome.

TRAVIS: One day left for Joe Mad.

LAURA: (Dragon Ball Z war cry) There we go.

MATT: That's okay. Ashley, I'm glad you could join us.

TRAVIS: Yay Ashley!

MATT: And we'll see you guys next week. Is it Thursday yet? 

(cheering)

KEVIN: All right! (cheers) Welcome! Is my mic on? It's on, whoa, yeah, welcome to the very first inaugural premiere edition of Critical Role live! Guys, my name's Kevin. I am the social media director for Geek and Sundry– yes, thank you very much, I am indeed a very cool person. I've been with Geek and Sundry for about eight months now, it was really intimidating at first because I kept mixing up Vax and Vex. Yeah, I still mix up Vax and Vex. But okay, what I was going to say was that Critical Role fans are the warmest, most welcoming fans.

(cheering)

KEVIN: Yeah! Except for that guy. Right? But no, I love you guys, give yourselves a big hand, thank you so much.

(cheering)

KEVIN: I want you guys to know, this is our first time doing this, this is as I said the first inaugural premiere, they're all synonyms, right? So if you're like me you're extremely excited. But please remember that all the people at home are still watching, say hi to the people at home, hi people at home.

AUDIENCE: Hi!

KEVIN: Right? So please do me a favor, put your phones on silent, all right? The house lights are going to be kind of dim, so you can use your phones, you can tweet, you can do social media posts, whatever you want, if there's a Cubone somewhere please let me know, tweet at me. I need like ten Cubones. So yeah, just put everything on silent and be silent about it. You can tweet about the show, please use the hashtag #CriticalRoleLive, surprisingly enough. Do me another favor, don't do the concert pic thing where you put your phone up and record for ten minutes at a time, because there are people behind you, as you may or may not know, so I'd really appreciate that. The other thing is, this not a Rocky Horror thing, so don't shout out like, I would like to rage. Don't do that stuff, don't “how do you want to do this?” Don't do that stuff. Be respectful of the people on stage. Think of this as a funny play. You can laugh, you can woo, but maybe don't shout out suggestions. Especially the suggestions that I know a lot of you have in your heads, right? Wait, I have one other thing. There's a merch thing. The merch table's going to be open after the show, is that right? Yes. After the show, the merch table's going to be open, so if you didn't get a chance to get merch, you're going to get another chance to get merch, so don't worry about that. Is there something else? VIPs will get your posters after, so if you're a VIP, you'll get a poster, just come– where? Upstairs. Okay. Don't worry. Right. Thank you. Let's hear it for Claudia once again, guys.

(cheering)

KEVIN: All right, so, do you guys want to bring them out?

(cheering)

KEVIN: All right. Let's start with the master of dick-lightning and shit-scrying, playing Scanlan Shorthalt, Mr. Sam Riegel!

(cheering)

KEVIN: All right!

SAM: Thanks! You get a car! You get a car! You get a car!

KEVIN: Guys, get your tickets to the gun show, because the gun show's coming to town. Playing Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel Klossowski de Rolo III of Whitestone. Yeah, right, right. Taliesin, let's bring him out, Taliesin Jaffe!

(cheering)

KEVIN: Guys, put your hands together, put your antlers on your head, for Keyleth. Marisha Ray!

(cheering)

KEVIN: Is she here? She's so stealthy, I don't understand.

MARISHA: I'm an independent woman, all right?

TALIESIN: Never mind, I give up.

KEVIN: All right, let's bring out the man I have a massive man-crush on–

SAM: I'm already here!

KEVIN: Liam O'Brien as Vax'ildan!

(cheering)

LIAM: What the hell!

KEVIN: This next woman was stuffing exotic animals into tiny balls before it was cool. Laura Bailey as Vex'ahlia!

(cheering)

KEVIN: She's got the hipster glasses to prove it.

LAURA: Yeah, that's right. It's not for seeing at all, I don't…

KEVIN: And the next guy, the next guy, get out your tubs of mayo for Mr. Travis Willingham as Grog freaking Strongjaw!

(cheering and chanting)

KEVIN: All right, let's, let's bring it down. Guys, there are certain names that people whisper with reverence. Because those names belong to the breakthrough artists in their field. Jim Henson, Bob Dylan, Madame Curie.

(laughter)

KEVIN: Tonight we have one of those names with us. You may know him. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Matt Mercer.

(cheering)

MATT: Oh boy. That's a lot, that's a lot of people.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

MATT: All righty, let me shore up my positioning here on the camera for you fine folks and open my energy drink because that's what makes this show happen.

TRAVIS: Caffeine and drugs.

MATT: (shushing noises) Anyway, welcome everybody to our first Critical Role live, all of you folks there on the internet and everyone here in person in Los Angeles, California.

(cheering)

MATT: Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. Tonight we have a fantastic pick-up of last week's story where the adventuring party Vox Machina found themselves wandering through the Feywild. However, before that happens, let us get to our fantastic sponsor for the evening. Once again, this episode is brought to you by Loot Crate, they've been awesome. So thank you guys so much.

(cheering)

MATT: The current Loot Crate theme for July is Futuristic, includes a lot of awesome Rick and Morty, Futurama, Mega Man, Valiant Comic stuff, Star Trek, that fun element there. We've got music playing, it's on. Oh man, I feel like things are happening.

SAM: Music's working?

LAURA: Music works, you guys, music works.

MATT: There we go. Perfect. Tech stuff is coming together. Yeah, so Futuristic is their crate theme this month. We also have the anime Loot Crate is themed Squadron. Has a bunch of stuff from Gundam, Gate, Arpeggio of Blue Steel, Antimagic Academy, a lot of exclusive stuff, of course you guys can go ahead and get $3 off a subscription by going to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and putting in “criticalrole,” one word, in your nice little Loot Crate subscription bonus.

TRAVIS: I chew on Goku's head a lot. I'm a fixated– it's cool.

MATT: And the paint is actually healthy to eat, apparently. That's not at all the reason why Grog's intelligence is that low. So, if you haven't checked it out yet, check out Loot Crate, thank you guys so much for sponsoring our show, we love you. Great. So. Next up we have– we recently had a t-shirt contest, didn't we? Laura, if you want to take that away for me.

LAURA: Oh, this? Okay, so I get to announce who the official winner is?

MATT: You do, actually, yeah.

LAURA: Oh my gosh, this is so exciting. Okay. So the official winner of the first Critter contest is… Against the Chroma Conclave, designed by Antmageddon!

(cheering)

LAURA: So! As of right now, that shirt is available in the Geek and Sundry store for preorder. It's going to be there for I think two weeks? And it's available in sizes small through 3XL, which we're really excited about. And yeah, so that's that, so.

TRAVIS: Go get one!

LAURA: Go you guys for voting on that, you rock, even with shenanigans.

MATT: There were so many amazing contenders for that contest that the community puts out, so we–

MARISHA: And we got hacked, which means we made it.

MATT: Yay! Next announcement I have, when I arrived here I discovered that there was an actual PokeGym as a part of this mall, I'd like to ask Team Valor to go ahead and make sure that shit leaves red.

(cheering and booing)

TRAVIS: What a response!

LAURA: That was a mixed reaction.

MATT: Look, the whole San Fernando Valley's blue, okay, give me something! All right, anyway. Yeah, it's become a thing. And we have another cool announcement. Travis, do you want to take it away on that one?

TRAVIS: Yes we do, the response to this live event was so amazing that we are super stoked to announce that we are going to also be doing Critical Role live in Indianapolis during GenCon on August 6, Saturday night. Tickets will go on sale- I think they're on sale now.

LAURA: Right now.

TRAVIS: Right now, so if you want to like, silently on your phone or just ignore it because it's a much bigger venue, so tickets should be available, but we're all going to be in Indianapolis on Saturday night and GenCon to roll some dice with you bitches live.

(cheering)

MATT: Hell yeah. So if this wasn't nerve-wracking enough for me, we have another one in a couple of weeks.

TRAVIS: Pressure's on, dude, pressure's on!

MATT: But I'm super stoked, it's going to be my first time at GenCon, I've been wanting to go for many years and this is a nice way to go, I guess. So. Check it out. Hopefully we'll see you guys there. That brings us to the end of our announcements and will bring us down–

LAURA: Wait. Before we go into not-regular announcements, should we make sure that people know that we're not having an episode next week because of Comic-Con?

MATT: That's true, actually, yeah.

SAM: Way to bring down the room.

LAURA: I'm sorry, guys.

MATT: Because all the company, everyone's going to be at Comic-Con doing panels and scheduling and stuff, there will be no episode next week, but I promise that we'll make the episode the week after that extra cool.

(cheering)

MATT: I hope. So yeah, let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

SAM: We're on!

(cheering)

MATT: All right, all right, we've got to do a story here! It's appreciated, but–

SAM: We should probably just finish.

MATT: All right, so, bringing us in now, back to tonight's episode of Critical Role. Guys, pay attention.

LIAM: Illithid syphilis.

MATT: The camera's already on.

LIAM: Yeah. Okay.

MATT: So. Our intrepid band of adventurers, Vox Machina, found themselves recently traversing the Feywild in search of another Vestige of Divergence. In doing so, they managed to find an old friend in the nymph Nahla, acquired some information, trading a book, and found their way towards the ever-shifting grasses northward in search of where the Divergence, the object of the Divergence lies. In doing so, they found a new ally, a new friend. A little satyr by the name of, where is it here–

ALL: Garmelie.

MATT: Garmelie, thank you. Now Garmelie, who had made some really interesting sketches of the party upon being caught was then dragged into Scanlan's magnificent mansion, at which Pike asked him to make a fantastic mural for the interior of that place, which I think still resides there to this day. And on the internet, as we've discovered. Upon traveling further north, hopefully to find their final destination in the form of the Shademirk Bog, where the Fenthras bow seemingly exists, you instead came upon Syngorn, the city from the youthful days of Vex and Vax. Upon speaking to the head– pardon me; you see, all the nerves gets the belching out. It works out well. Upon encountering Watcher Iova watching the gate, recognizing the twins, let them within the actual city of Syngorn. And that is where we left off. So, as you guys walk through the beautiful verdant city, tall seemingly endless trees around you, many buildings naturally formed and built from smoothly carved stone, various ancient sigils carved throughout the entire cityscape, the very heavy-armored Verdant Guard gathered in places, and a general air of intensity and building military might within the city of Syngorn, you have your invisible companion Garmelie, who at some point in the near future agreed to tell you what it is he wishes you to steal for him as part of the deal that was made by the twins. So. What would you like to do?

LIAM: I feel like I should be very stern right now, but I can't stop smiling.

TRAVIS: You're gloomy. Lock it up, here we go.

LAURA: I feel like the first thing we need to do is go see our father.

LIAM: Right off the bat?

LAURA: He's the one that's going to give us access to the rest of the city.

LIAM: All right. Is Iova still here, or has she trundled off?

MATT: She's walked off. She literally let you guys in the city and went, do what you've got to do, and then turned away and the rest of the guards–

LAURA: Oh seriously, so like… no, no the guard is following us.

LIAM: And we remember where we're going, right, because it's all the same as it was.

MATT: The city is the same as it was.

LIAM: Well, I imagine we'd go to his home. Our home. His home.

LAURA: What time is it? I mean, we don't know what time it is.

TALIESIN: It's dusk.

LAURA: Thank you, Percy.

SAM: But we just woke up.

LAURA: All right. Okay.

LIAM: Look at all those elves.

LAURA: So many elves.

TRAVIS: Is the little satyr– is he holding onto my skirts, basically?

MATT: You actually don't feel a general presence, and then as you move you feel a slight tug at your belt.

TRAVIS: Right, so can I like, how far away is that guard that's on our tail?

MATT: About 15, 20 feet back.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah. Can I like super slyly whisper, okay, so at any point are you going to tell us what it is you want us to fucking steal?

MATT: You hear a whispered voice that curls up by your ear, strangely given the fact that he's so small, so the voice is being thrown right into the side of your eardrum, goes, “Just be quiet! Find a place in which we can speak privately, and then I will be happy to tell you. Shh! Stop talking to the air; it upsets them.”

TRAVIS: It's really quite normal for me.

LAURA: Hey, Grog. You should really watch that gas of yours with him back there.

TRAVIS: Oh, you're so right. Hey, pull my finger. (fart sound)

MATT: (coughs)

TRAVIS: Yeah. That's the family reserve. Oh, he said we're supposed to find somewhere quiet to talk.

LIAM: Maybe we should do that first, actually.

LAURA: We have guards fucking following us. We have to go find our father.

TALIESIN: We also don't know where we're sleeping tonight, or whether or not it's even permissible. We should probably have a conversation with whoever's in charge. Is your father in charge?

LIAM: No.

LAURA: Ish.

TALIESIN: Ish.

LIAM: He's a bureaucrat.

TALIESIN: Excellent.

(laughter)

LIAM: All right, let's go see Dad, then.

MARISHA: (whispers) Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: (whispers) Your pants, they're sagging a little bit, why?

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: (whispers) They're sagging.

TRAVIS: Oh, it's like the new rage amongst the kids. It gives me super street cred.

MARISHA: Where's Garmelie?

LAURA: Keyleth, shut up about Garmelie!

TRAVIS: Yeah, ix-nay on the Garmelie– I think I'm doing Pig Latin wrong. Yeah.

LIAM: It's this way. And I start walking off towards Dad's house.

TALIESIN: I'm going to follow the twins.

SAM: Sounds good.

MARISHA: I look regal and as we pass elves I say, good day.

MATT: The few that look in your direction, Keyleth, take a moment to nod, look you over and then continue walking, seemingly perturbed by the sudden interaction and the immediate realization that you're not of full blood.

LAURA: Yeah, sorry Keyleth, your ears aren't large enough.

MARISHA: That's not normally what people tell me.

SAM: It's not the size of your ears…

MARISHA: That's right.

MATT: So. As you guys continue following Vax'ildan towards the abode of their father, you keep an eye out towards the rest of Syngorn proper. You see the further into the city you go, interspersed with a few Emon guards, you see a handful of individuals that are human, and they're dressed in the actual attire of the guards of Emon, and they're intermingling right now with the Verdant Guard, the military might within Syngorn.

MARISHA: What were the name of the guards in Emon? Did they have a name?

MATT: The Emon guard.

MARISHA: Yeah, totally.

MATT: There is a name, and it's somewhere in my notes but we're good.

TALIESIN: From this perspective, I can see your panic folder. It's so exciting. That's where the magic happens.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's true, we never really see that!

TALIESIN: This is exciting for us.

(laughter)

MATT: So. You guys continue making your way towards the abode. After traversing on the outskirts of what would be the tangleward side of the city, the eastern side, you travel in through an area of buildings that are very beautifully crafted, many of which seem to have stemmed from some sort of a tree growth, but upon closer look you can see that it's actually carved stone to resemble a tree. And then it eventually rises up into a somewhat spherical building, and there are many that build off of that to create this kind of neighborhood of various elven abodes within Syngorn.

LIAM: Fucking hate this place.

LAURA: Me, too. It's hideous.

MARISHA: This is gorgeous. Look at the craftsmanship. It's incredible.

SAM: Good day.

MARISHA: Good day.

MATT: You make your way towards the end of this particular–

(laughter)

MATT: The guards still keeping track behind you. You find your way to the end of the main road, and it splits into two smaller avenues. You know to take the left that leads deeper into the more political family houses of Syngorn. While your family is not a political house per se, your father, as an ambassador to Emon, was given a home in this location. It is your old home, although it appears to have been even further renovated and is much nicer than you remember, but the door is closed and the dusk sun leads you to pause as you look upon the outside of this abode you have not seen in many, many years.

SAM: Do you want me to burn it down?

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: No, just seriously, you seem super gloomy. Are we getting in a fight?

LAURA: No. No fights.

MATT: The guards now step up and flank a little bit, keeping a close eye as you've now approached and effectively knocked on the handle of a relatively middle-to-high-ranking individual within Syngorean society. Eventually the door opens and you see a woman standing there: bright blonde hair, braided and tied up in the back. She's wearing more of a work-gown for the day. You recognize her as Devana, the new wife of Syldor, the one that you had once met before in Emon when you guys came upon your father last time. As the door opens up, she looks out for a second, taking in the whole group that has gathered on the outside of their home and goes, “My god. Vax'ildan, Vex'ahlia, we weren't expecting you!”

LAURA: No. I can't imagine you were. Is he here?

MATT: “He is.”

LAURA: What time is it?

MATT: She glances out, looks up. “That's always a good question. The longer we stay in these realms, the more confused my daughter becomes.”

LIAM: How long has that been?

MATT: “Weeks now, I assume. Best that our timepieces can keep.”

LAURA: Is Velora around?

MATT: “She is, would you like to see her?”

LAURA: Of course.

MATT: “Come in. Is it just you two?”

LAURA and LIAM: No.

LAURA: It's everyone.

TRAVIS: Hi.

LAURA: And Trinket, you remember Trinket.

MATT: (bear noises) Nudges your arm to the side and comes forward and sniffs out to Devana. She shrinks back a little bit and reaches her hand out to the nose and taps the edge of Trinket's face, and Trinket licks her fingers.

MARISHA: Good day.

SAM: Good day.

MARISHA: Good day. They respond better if you say “good day” and if you have your head up.

TRAVIS: If we say “bidet?”

MARISHA: Bidet, yes. Good day.

TRAVIS: Bidet.

TALIESIN: So close. So very close.

MATT: The two guards closest to you, within their helmets their eyes narrow, they look at each other and shake their heads.

TRAVIS: Oh, bidet.

LIAM: Your accent is perfect. Don't change a thing.

MATT: Devana goes, “Very well. If you would all proceed to be quiet if you could, Syldor is working. And you may stay outside,” she says to the guards. And they both, “We were given orders, milady, to–” “I understand that. But this is already a lot of people in our home. Stay close within earshot, it'll be fine. I trust them.” The guards, (sighs)--

LAURA: I wink at them as I walk inside.

MATT: No reaction whatsoever. You guys make your way into the home and are immediately caught with a very strong smell of cedar. It's a very pleasant-smelling home, and the hearth is warm. It's everything you wanted your home to be, and it immediately hits you to walk in here and see this kind of life away from a life, seeing elements of it that remind you of your childhood, things about it that flag memories to your head of good times and bad, in just a few mere moments. And at that same time, there's a sadness because so much of it has changed, so much of it seems better than the memory. And for a moment there, you feel a little tinge of wondering how different it might've been. At which point that thought process is broken as Devana steps in and goes, “Would anyone like tea, perhaps?”

SAM: Sure, yes, do you have an oolong?

MARISHA: Maybe a chamomile, it would be great.

MATT: “Something like that, yes. It's been a little scarce in the Feywilds. More difficult to farm herbs here than you'd think.”

MARISHA: Oh, here. I pull out some herbs that I brought from my garden. Some glisfoil and other things.

MATT: “Thank you. Appreciate that.”

MARISHA: They won't scream at you when you pick them. Good. It's good.

MATT: “Thank you. What was your name again?”

MARISHA: Oh, I'm Keyleth of the Ashari.

MATT: “A pleasure to meet you again–”

MARISHA: Good day.

MATT: “That's, that's really not necessary in my home. You, sir, your name?”

TALIESIN: Whatever's available would be just fine.

SAM and MARISHA: I think she means your name.

MATT: “That's a curious title.”

MARISHA: But you can call him whatever's available, as well.

MATT: “Very well, coffee table. What's your name?”

(laughter)

LIAM: It's easier than the actual name.

TALIESIN: For you, it is just Percival, and I am another visiting royal from man's world.

MATT: “All right. You, sir?”

SAM: I am called the Kingslayer, Chuck Norris, Burt Reynolds. I have many names. You see, when you've traveled a road as long as I have–

MATT: “Black tea, got it. And you, sir, the large one?”

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. Bidet. The name is Grog.

MATT: “Very well. I'll return with Syldor once he knows you're here. It may be a while if you don't mind waiting, but the tea will come out posthaste.”

LAURA: And Velora? Where's she?

MATT: “Let me get her for you, she'll be very like to see both of you, she asks from time to time.” She brushes a little lock of hair that's fallen in front of her face behind her ear, and smiles and darts off towards the kitchen. A few moments pass with you guys sitting in awkward silence, looking about the space in the vicinity. Looks to the twins. Eventually Devana comes out and sets tea for all of you across the central table in this meeting area, and behind her you see, clutching the edge of the skirt, you see this tiny, long brown hair that is braided, but the braid's coming undone, tomboyish looking elven girl that peeks around the side of her dress and hides again behind the back.

[high-pitched noise]

[Due to technical difficulties, several minutes of the stream are missing but were recorded by an audience member and posted by Critical Scope on YouTube. The missing portion is transcribed below.]

LIAM: Come here. Give me a hug.

MATT: She looks to her mom, looks to you. “Are you a warrior?”

LIAM: Sort of.

(laughter)

MATT: She gives you a very judging glance.

LAURA: (whispering) A very strong warrior.

MATT: “Okay!” She runs up and gives you a hug.

LIAM: I scoop her up and I turn her away from her mom and I bring her into a hug with her sister.

LAURA: Hello, dear! Are you still wearing that necklace I gave you?

MATT: “Yes!” She pulls it out and shows it.

LAURA: Oh, you’re wonderful! How are they treating you? Is it wonderful here? Do you hate it?

MATT: “It’s boring! There’s nothing to do here! They won’t let us leave the city!”

LAURA: I completely understand. You need to talk your father into going back.

MATT: “He won’t listen to anyone!”

TALIESIN: Why won’t they let you leave the city, dear?

MATT: “Because it’s dangerous and they’re almost ready for the war, they said.”

TALIESIN: Did they?

SAM: What? Oh.

TALIESIN: Are you going to fight, dear?

MATT: At this point, Devana scolds, “My dear, Velora, let’s leave that discussion for when your father comes.” You hear a voice across the room say, “Then I suppose it’s time to discuss.” Everyone glances over and on the far edge of the room, coming out of what you assume is his study, the door partially open, the familiar long, black hair, pale complexion, stern look that you grew up with. The man before you is the elven ambassador from Syngorn to Emon.

LUCAS: Matt? We got to stop. We had a program freeze.

MATT: Oh no!

LUCAS: Everybody, this is typical. You know how it goes.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Just like the real thing!

(laughter)

LAURA: Did anybody bring a hula-hoop?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I brought dice!

LUCAS: [inaudible]

MATT: Two minutes.

LUCAS: [inaudible]

LAURA: Oh shit, did--

MARISHA: This was a huge reveal.

LIAM: Good thing it was a such a throw-away moment.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: How about we kill the kid?

(laughter, cheers)

MARISHA: Don’t worry, they’ll all blame it on me.

TALIESIN: Put her in the Pokeball and throw her out.

TRAVIS: We could put water all over our faces and act like somebody died! Who’s it going to be? Who wants to die?

TALIESIN: I’ll roshambo you for it.

MARISHA: That’ll be completely fair.

TRAVIS: Paladin of the Raven Queen.

MATT: Let us know when we’re ready again.

SAM: Oh, well, if we’re stalling.

CREW: 30 seconds.

LAURA: No, wait! What? Stall.

SAM: We’re back in 30 seconds; forget it.

TALIESIN: What were you going to say?

LAURA: What were you going to do?

SAM: I was going to give the audience a present.

(gasping and cheering)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I love you, Sam.

SAM: But it sounds like we’re about to go.

MATT: We’re about to go.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: No, hold off! It’s funny.

LIAM: The next malfunction will be in 15 minutes.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: You get a carpet, and you get a carpet.

MATT: Do we have that part recorded for Monday, at least?

LUCAS: What’s that?

MATT: Do we have the footage recorded? Do we have that footage recorded for the Monday episode, at least?

LUCAS: Yes, and when we get it, we’ll mash them together.

MATT: Great, that’s what we wanted.

MARISHA: Yeah, we can--

MATT: [inaudible]

MARISHA: If this would have happened with Anton back in the day: Fix it in post.

SAM: We have time?

CREW: I’m going to count you guys down. Here we go.

LAURA: Okay.

CREW: Let me confirm that the stream is up.

LIAM: Stop watching them work!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: [inaudible] I love it.

CREW: All right, here we go. Going live in five, four--

LIAM: Naga nipples!

LAURA: Titty twist!

[end missing portion]

MATT: Welcome back, sorry about that.

(cheering)

SAM: What a battle!

MATT: The technical aspects. We're working through it, but we got through it, thank you for your patience. So the last few minutes, we're not quite sure how much you guys may have missed, but the party wiped. We're rolling up new characters. No, for the Monday episode we'll go ahead and make sure to splice in anything that may have been missed for the past minute. But the party had come to the home of Syldor, the father of Vax and Vex. They had a brief discussion with Devana, his new wife. They were given tea after introductions and then briefly discussed the merits of being a warrior with their half-sister Velora Vessar, and upon discussing apparently a war of some kind, Syldor made his way into the room, and you look and you see the long dark hair of Syldor, his pale complexion, his stern face, staring back at you all from within the doorway as he closes it behind him and steps into the room. You see Devana sits up now and comes over to him and says, “My dear, would you like us to leave you alone?” He goes, “Don't worry, it will be fine. Have a seat. Besides, we're all family. Well, some of us, at least.” And he looks over to Grog.

TRAVIS: Bidet.

(laughter)

MATT: “Good day, indeed.” He comes up and sits, and he's wearing long, dark brown robes with golden and red embroidery on the side, but it's very casual home wear, and he sits down, pulling up a chair across from you guys in this area, and takes one of the cups of tea and sips it. And you can see there's an intensity to his face. He's here, and he looks like he's partially inconvenienced by your presence like he always did, but he also looks like he hasn't slept well, there's some dark circles under his eyes and he seems a little distracted for such a climactic re-meeting.

LAURA: Surprise!

MATT: “Surprise, indeed. So. It's good to see you both. Glad you're in good health. You've come quite a ways to come speak with me, being as we currently reside within the Feywild.”

LIAM: It's a little bit further than we thought we'd have to travel, why… the presence around the city we're seeing? We understand why you fled, but what's going on?

MATT: “Look. We had the entire Fort Daxio army down here and we were to give aid to push into the nearby mountain range where apparently there was an influx of lizardfolk, had been a continuous problem, and apparently a break had been seen somewhere. However, we had sent most of our forces into the mountain range and then received word that three great drakes were making their way straight toward Syngorn after the destruction of Emon. Knowing that, we had no recourse but to flee and prepare when it was time. Had we stood our ground, we would be the same burning crater that your fair city is now.”

LAURA: So you intend to go back? You're amassing this army to go back and join the fight.

MATT: “That is exactly what we're doing. The remnants of the Emon army we currently have here in the city, we've been building armor and weapons to make sure the most sure-footed and strong-of-arm men and women of our fair city can make it to that battlefield and tear that beast down.”

LAURA: That's wonderful news.

MATT: “Good. Why are you here?”

TALIESIN: We are here on a very similar range of business, to be honest.

MATT: “And you are?”

TALIESIN: Ah, yes. Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel Klossowski de Rolo III of the royal house of Whitestone, representative of man's world, here on very important business dealing with dragons. We are looking for some objects: a few things that may help us in our fight against these dragons that have attacked us. We've already made headway against them, and we've already made headway on our quest to destroy them. Any help that your wonderful city could provide would be most agreeable.

MATT: “Well. We currently have all of our resources engaged in our plans of attack. There is not much we could offer you other than, if you wish to stay here within the city, we could provide a place to sleep, food, and when the time is right you may join our ranks into the fray.”

LIAM: We've come to the Feywild for something specific.

MARISHA: We're trying to head to the Shademirk Bog.

MATT: “Why on earth would you be heading to the Shademirk?”

MARISHA: We're looking for the bow of Fenthras. It supposedly lives inside of a cancerous tree.

MATT: “Right. Well. Good luck with that.”

LAURA: Do you think it's possible?

MATT: “I think it's a fool's errand to chase a fleeting rumor into a location that is known to devour and destroy anyone who steps within its bounds. But by all means, you've always been ones seeking the darkness.”

LIAM: He and I are wearing fleeting rumors. That one's got one hidden up his butt.

(laughter)

MATT: You hear Velora chuckle. Devana's like, “Shh! Quiet!”

LAURA: I want to pull Velora over and sit her in my lap.

MATT: She (raspberry noise) at her mom as you pick her up there. You can see Devana smiles as she does so.

LIAM: Syldor, we have killed two of these dragons already. Nothing could please me more to hear that you are amassing forces here to go back; that is possibly the greatest thing I've ever heard you say to me.

LAURA: I want to insight check him and see if he's really saying–

TRAVIS: Yeah, do that shit!

MATT: Roll an insight check.

LIAM: Him or me?

LAURA: 26 on him!

MATT: All right. I'd whisper, but the microphone makes it useless. It's fine. He appears tired, he appears like a lot of his intention and time has been put towards something important–

LAURA: Being a giant dick?

MATT: Possibly. But he doesn't appear to be lying or fudging the truth at all, he's just tired. He says, “Look. There are a lot of pieces at work here. If you have your own path, by all means. And while I have heard of some of your exploits, and I am quite impressed, I hate to be blunt, but it's difficult and strange to mingle family new and old. Your presence here brings up difficult memories for me.”

LAURA: Oh, you poor man.

LIAM: Don't worry. We're not here to look for family. That would entail some amount of investment on either our side or yours. There is clearly none. We are here to do business. Do you know where the bog is?

MATT: “Yes. It's duskward of here.”

SAM: Duskward.

TRAVIS: Fucking shit.

LIAM: Well, some people go this way, and some people go that way, and some people go both ways.

MARISHA: It's like being on a ship forever.

MATT: “I have not traversed this land extensively. I've been here working along with the heads of the city to make sure we are ready for this attack.”

LAURA: When do you plan to attack?

MATT: “A few weeks.”

LAURA: You're joining other armies. You don't plan to fight Thordak on your own?

MATT: “Well. There is an attempt to join up with the remnants of the Fort Daxio force. They have not gone to Emon themselves and they currently reside camped out near where Syngorn usually is. We have a few groups that are set on the other side of the veil in the prime realm and they are keeping an eye out for this. A few scouting parties are in Emon as we speak, trying to gather intel on Thordak himself. Once we have that information and we can formulate what to expect, then we can attack.”

MARISHA: So you're trying to go after Thordak himself. That's your first target, Thordak?

MATT: “He's currently the largest threat to our safety, our home, and our return. Don't think this is the first time a red dragon of that size has been felled. There have been ancient ages of various deaths from his people. It's not impossible, but we need to be ready.”

TRAVIS: Just a heads-up, pro tip: dragons can fly.

(laughter)

MATT: “And I take it you're their leader.”

TRAVIS: Of the dragons?

(laughter)

MATT: He very slowly sighs while grabbing his tea.

TRAVIS: I've clearly lost your father. It's all right.

LAURA: His intelligence is very low, Grog.

TALIESIN: In the interest of dealing with Thordak, we are going to need access to libraries, any of your people who may know something about this bog, and accommodations befitting those of us who are titled.

SAM: As well as access to certain parts of the city. We need some items to acquire within the city before we set out.

MARISHA: Also, it would be nice to find shelter for those of us who are not titled.

SAM: And I had asked for an oolong tea.

(laughter)

SAM: This is more of an assam, I would say? A black tea.

TALIESIN: This is technically what you do, though, isn't it?

MATT: Devana says, “I'm terribly sorry, I didn't mean that–”

MARISHA: No, not you.

MATT: Syldor crosses his fingers together and, “I can give you a letter that will grant you entry to a few of our general storehouses. However, most of you are outsiders and others have been ostracized in their own right.”

TALIESIN: But you will respect titled entry. Those of us who are court can converse with court.

MATT: “Your title, your court, is unfamiliar with me. I doubt it will hold sway within this town, this city, this entire realm. But you speak of great importance, are you the leader of this troop, he who brings up words of courts and titles?”

TALIESIN: For the moment, why not? I will say, I know the Feywild by reputation, and by reputation you are known for your manners, and any kingdom should be measured by manners as the currency that is the easiest to come across.

MATT: “Manners, by the way, are extremely effective in times of peace. This is not one of those times. However, I appreciate that you at least acknowledge the way things sometimes work. So. Daughter. Son. What else do you need of me?”

LIAM: Honestly? Nothing.

LAURA: We don't need or want anything from you.

MATT: “Yet you still came to my home.”

LAURA: Oh, well. Yeah. We got what we wanted, which is access to the city.

LIAM: We're not here to be friends or rekindle anything, but it seems like we want the same thing, in a roundabout way. We want to end these dragons. We want to return the world to what it once was. Any help you can give in spite of our past, in spite of all the bullshit between us will be appreciated by more than just she and I.

LAURA: We know you have no love for us. Think of those you do love. And I hug Velora. Don't you want to make her safe?

MATT: “That's exactly what I intend to do. If you wish to help in that, then so be it. I'll pull what I can within the city. (sighs) Just leave me to my business, please.” You see for a moment there, for all the facade, all the front that he puts up, that strong distance facade, you see the fatigue break through, and there's a, like a dark heartbreak. “This is a greater threat than we've ever faced in our lifetime, and many of those in this city have lived quite a while. We have to do things right. Don't be foolish. Too many lives have been lost at the hands of these dragons, some closer than others.”

LAURA: Do you know of anyone that has traversed more of the Feywild, that would know of what we might expect?

MATT: “One who's seen the most would be the High Warden. I could probably get you passage to see her, but you're going to be heavily guarded.” You guys do know the High Warden, Tyrelda is her name, and she is actually of the bloodline of Gynlara who founded Syngorn centuries ago. She currently is essentially the de facto leader, though in terms of public, she is the final decision-maker on most of Syngorn's political and social endeavors. “Will that suffice?”

LIAM: It will.

LAURA: It will.

SAM: Good day.

MARISHA: Good day.

(laughter)

MATT: “Curious manners, your friends.” He takes his tea and pours another cupful, and leans back in his chair. “Two dragons you say you've killed.”

LIAM: That's right.

LAURA: More than that, isn't it?

TRAVIS: Of the Conclave.

LAURA: Of the Conclave, we've killed two.

MATT: “Which ones?”

LAURA: Umbrasyl. And. What was the other one?

LIAM: Blitzen?

LAURA: Blitzen, Donner? What was the name of the other one? Oh, it was General Krieg!

MARISHA: Yeah, that one.

LAURA: The blue one.

MARISHA: And then we've also killed a white one.

SAM: We thought so little of him we didn't even remember his name.

(laughter)

LIAM: Brimscythe?

MARISHA: Brimscythe. That's the one.

SAM: But also we respect him enough to learn his name.

MATT: “Well, your story has charm. I have to admit, I have gotten word of at least one dragon felled on the other side.”

MARISHA: I pull out a dragon's tooth from Umbrasyl out of my pocket and I toss it to him. That's the result of the doings of your children. You should be very proud.

MATT: “I am proud. I. Am proud. But the city lives differently. Understand the difficulty that your presence puts upon our family with you being here. I mean no disrespect, and it's fine in this trying time. But while you two may have undergone much ridicule in your youth, I saved you from the brunt of it.”

LAURA: You– headphones, dear– you fucked some random woman in a city you passed through, and you expect us to feel sorry for you?

LIAM: You should've left us to be with our mother when she died!

LAURA: Why? Why pull us away from her if you had no love? We would have been happy with her.

MATT: “Because I had hope that you would be worth more, given that you had my blood in your veins, than to waste away in some small hovel.”

LAURA: If I could pull the blood of you from my veins and give it back, I would. I want no part of you.

MATT: “There are many things we wish for but we have no choice but to take what we are given and make the best with what we have. Even with this rift, there is still a part of me that cares for you both and is genuinely happy that you live. And that you rise. And that you prove what the rest of these fools in this city said you were incapable of. Yes, I am prejudiced. But I still fight it every day. And I'm not going to lie, every time that my daughter, your half-sister, laughs and plays stealthy Vax and Vex on her own, it makes me smile. You inspire those outside of our city walls with your doings. I think that's rather large of you. As foolish and as damned deadly as some of these endeavors may be, you inspire. That's more than I've done in my lifetime. So. Care not what I think. Care not how your mother died. Just avenge it. For both of us. Show your little sister that you can rise up and destroy whatever comes in your way. Hate me all you want. It's only half-scorn from me. I live with my regrets. I tried to bring you up right. But that upbringing was not right for you. And by the time I tried to return you, it was too late. I'm sorry. That's all I can say.” Devana goes, “Anyone want any more tea? Oolong, you said.”

SAM: You got it!

MATT: “Right, yes.” And she leaves, awkwardly.

TRAVIS: Just so you know, what they did against the dragons was incredible. All of the rest of us were like, “Ah! Oh, we're dying! We don't have anything we can do!” And then they were like “Kill! Stab!” And then–

MARISHA: Percy! No, don't die!

TALIESIN: What are you doing?

MARISHA: I'm being blood out of your jugular, just go with it.

TRAVIS: And then they killed them all! It's the only reason we're alive, really.

SAM: It's true. Vax wanted to go inside the dragon, I was like, no! No, let's do it!

(laughter)

SAM: Cut his way out, went back and saved me. Crazy.

MATT: “That does indeed sound quite crazy.”

TRAVIS: I mean, the balls on this one– this one.

MATT: “Let's be honest, Grog. They both have–”

TRAVIS: Lord Grog Peanut Butter of Strongjaw. I'm titled.

MATT: “I'd say they've both proven to have more balls than most of those in our city.”

LIAM: Look, we're never going to be a happy family.

MATT: “No. That is right.”

LIAM: But if you want to make reparations, help us on our path. It will only help you on yours.

MATT: He stands up from his chair and walks his way back to his study and closes the door behind him.

LAURA: Well, fuck. Guess he's not into us now.

TRAVIS: I thought we weren't getting in a fight!

TALIESIN: No, this is good.

SAM: Do you want me to take a dump somewhere?

TALIESIN: Not yet.

LAURA: Oh, headphones, darling.

SAM: Oh, sorry.

MATT: She pulls your hand down, looks at you, says, “Take a dump!”

LAURA: Oh, shit. I mean, shoot!

MATT: “I like him.”

SAM: That's gnomish. Doesn't mean the same thing.

MATT: She's now transfixed on Scanlan.

LAURA: Darling, he takes blue sparkly poos!

MATT: “Blue sparkle poos? Can you teach me?”

(laughter)

SAM: Do you have any blueberries?

MATT: “I'm going to ask my mom if we've got blueberries.”

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: She runs off to the kitchen. A few minutes pass, and Devana comes out holding the tea on the cart and goes, “Who taught my daughter to say 'blue sparkly poo?'”

LAURA: I don't know what you're talking about.

MARISHA: Is that a swear word?

LAURA: You should really control the people in this city from talking about that, because it's weird.

SAM: She got it at preschool.

TALIESIN: So many soldiers everywhere.

MATT: “Velora, go to your room.”

MARISHA: I've never heard a soldier say, “Ah, blue sparkly poo!” I feel like she didn't get that from a soldier.

TALIESIN: You've never really been in war, have you?

MATT: The door opens from the far study, and you see Syldor walk back in holding what looks to be a rolled-up piece of paper with a seal on it. He heads over and tosses it onto the table. “That will grant you passage through the city. That will grant you a single meeting with the High Warden. That's the most my power can do at this time.”

LAURA: This is a belt buckle, why are you passing me this?

LIAM: (stage-whispering) We're playing pretend.

LAURA: Okay, oh, it's a sealed scroll now.

TALIESIN: May I see that really quickly? Don't throw it! Pretend!

MARISHA: Pretend. I'm pretend handing it off.

SAM: Ooh, good object work.

LIAM: Now get in the canoe!

LAURA: Yes, yes.

TALIESIN: Right, they're all elves. I can't look at them.

SAM: Oh, it flew away!

TALIESIN: This grants an audience for all of us, then?

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: You're going to have to amend that one name, though, just to be fair. It's Lady Vex'ahlia.

MATT: “Lady?”

TALIESIN: Lady Vex'ahlia, Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: So good sir, despite your relationship with her, do watch your manners.

SAM: Tea spit take!

MATT: “My apologies, Lady Vex'ahlia.”

LAURA: Well, you didn't know.

(laughter)

MATT: You can see, there's confused surprise, but a smile does curl across the corner of his mouth. “I will make the amendment immediately.” And he stands back up, takes it from Percival and makes his way back to the room.

LIAM: Darth Vader.

MATT: He returns, hands you the amended paper. “Good luck.”

LAURA: This is a belt buckle– oh.

(laughter)

MATT: It's a gift from your mother.

TRAVIS: You should thank Percy.

MATT: “If you do intend to make your way towards the Shademirk, be careful. Be safe. And if anything comes your way that you feel you are incapable of handling, run. We don't need heroes right now, we need survivors.”

TRAVIS: No promises?

MATT: He shoots you a very dark look.

TRAVIS: Right. Sorry. The House of Peanut Butter will continue its bloodline. I don't know.

MATT: “I will send word. Where can I send word to retrieve you when the time is ready for us to attack?”

SAM: Do we have accommodations in the city?

LAURA: Yes, but we'll be in Whitestone.

MATT: “I will send word to Whitestone when we plan to return to the Prime Material, and preparing our forces for attack upon Thordak in Emon.”

MARISHA: If not, reach out to Allura of Emon.

MATT: “I know Allura well, and I can reach to her.”

MARISHA: I had a feeling you did.

(laughter)

SAM: Are you hitting on their dad?

MATT: “Anyway.”

MARISHA: Does everything look like hitting on people to you, Scanlan?

SAM: It does.

MATT: It's the Scanlan filter. It's on Snapchat.

MARISHA: Take off the beer goggles, take them off! Those are plus-two magical beer goggles. Take them off!

MATT: He stands up and at this point Devana enters beside him, puts her hand on his shoulder. He looks to you with his hands crossed before him and goes, “I wish you luck and safe journeys. I appreciate you coming by. It was good to see you both.”

LIAM: Where did our sister go?

MATT: Turns and Devana goes, “She's in her room for using bad language.”

LAURA: Poo is a really terrible word to say, I think. Good thing she didn't say any of the other words that she heard in here.

MATT: “Hold on.” And she leaves and comes back, this time pushing Velora from the back, and Velora walks up pouting with her arms crossed, holding her little owlbear under her arm.

LIAM: Come here.

MATT: She runs up and gives you a big hug. “Are you leaving?”

LIAM: Yeah, just for a little bit, though.

MATT: “You just got here!”

LIAM: I know. Listen, do me a favor? Keep scraping up those knees, will you? You crawl anywhere you want in this city, the higher the better. And listen to your parents some of the time. But not all of the time.

MATT: “I can already do that.”

LAURA: Oh, and!

MATT: She gives you a little kiss on the cheek and then runs up and puts her arms around you and almost pushes you back, she's bigger than you remember.

LAURA: She is. I pull out one of my owlbear feathers that I picked up with Zahra and I tuck it behind her ear.

MATT: “What's this?”

LAURA: It's an owlbear feather. I know!

(laughter)

MATT: She steps back down and looks at her little plushie and–

LAURA: You keep that behind your ear, and you wear your necklace, and you never forget that Vex and Vax love you very, very much, dear.

LIAM: Listen to us. You are not our half-sister. You are our sister.

MATT: She runs up and hugs you both, one in each arm, and then steps back down. “Thank you. Come back soon, please!”

LAURA: Of course, come visit me in my baroness… isity.

MATT: She runs back to her mom's side and looks at her mom and goes, “Poo.”

(laughter)

MATT: Devana rolls her eyes and goes, “Ugh. Thank you. So much.”

LIAM: Shit's a good word, too.

MATT: Covers her ears.

TRAVIS: Are we doing that now? Penis wiggle!

(laughter)

MATT: You see Devana's looking cornered, it's like, (shushing noises). Syldor actually starts laughing. “I hope that's good day, then!”

SAM: Good day.

LAURA: Good day.

TRAVIS: Bidet.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Good day.

MATT: “Good day.” And Syldor bows, you all slowly leave the door, and right before the door closes behind you hear a little voice go, “Shit.”

(laughter)

MATT: “No!” The door closes.

MARISHA: We're those terrible-influence side of the family, aren't we?

LAURA: I run up and I give Percy the biggest hug. Percival!

TALIESIN: It's the gift of smugness, it never goes away.

LAURA: Wait, is it real– no. Was it all just to–

TALIESIN: No, I actually, it occurs to me that we did kill two of the three barons of Whitestone the last time that we were there.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: There's no house and there's no money–

MARISHA: It's the one Scanlan burned.

TALIESIN: It's the one that Scanlan burned.

SAM: Oh, you're the lady of the house that I burned down.

TALIESIN: And there's just a crypt and that's being used for other things, but–

MARISHA: But you have a title!

TALIESIN: But you do have a title, at the very least. And once a year, you have to do something ridiculous.

LAURA: Even so, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're welcome.

LAURA: I thank you so much.

TALIESIN: Use it in good health.

TRAVIS: I lean over to Scanlan and I say, did you notice that their dad was saying “bidet” wrong?

SAM: I did. I did.

TRAVIS: I thought he was like a highfalutin type.

SAM: You should just say it even louder to make sure people know the correct pronunciation.

TRAVIS: I know. We could be a force for good in and outside of the city. Bidet!

SAM: Bidet!

MATT: The guards that are waiting for you outside of the house just sigh very loudly. (sighs)

TRAVIS: Change is hard.

MATT: All right, so you have your parchment. Within the next half-hour or so it's not difficult for you guys to go ahead and find sleeping arrangements for the evening within Syngorn. You're met for the most part with standoffishness and curiosity with your approach, but upon showing the paper there is a sudden realization and a formality that is brought to the conversation, and it's, you can't help but enjoy it, the two of you. You haven't walked through Syngorn and been forcing people to show you the respect you've always wanted, and there is something slightly cathartic about that. But you manage to find accommodations for the evening's rest. The guards proceed up into the secondary floor where your room is kept. Will not enter the room, but notify you that they will be staying outside of the doorway to ensure that both you are protected and that you don't do anything crazy in the night.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: That's stupid.

MARISHA: We're respectable.

TALIESIN: It's adorable that they think they could stop us if we tried.

MARISHA: I know! Are we all in rooms next to each other, are we in one room?

MATT: It's a series of rooms within what looks like it was at one time a military barracks that has since been renovated. It's not really an inn or tavern; there aren't a lot of travelers that come through Syngorn that don't actually live there or have a home, so it's more being used for storage, but they cleared out an area and they put up beds and it looks– Syngorn storage room is pretty nice by the standards of like Kymal or Westruun, so it's not too bad.

TALIESIN: There's some art nouveau happening. That's all I can really ask.

MARISHA: Have they already locked us in our rooms?

MATT: No, you've just gotten to your rooms now, so.

TRAVIS: We're a very religious group and we like to have a family prayer.

LAURA: Speaking of, wait. Where the fuck is Pike?

SAM: Oh shit.

MARISHA: She was right behind us!

MATT: You all, you all realize in the chaos and the tension of meeting your father–

LIAM: Must've gotten lost!

TRAVIS: No, she's here.

MATT: You catch a sudden flicker of divine energy in the space of the hallway near you. The guards step back, looking a bit freaked out and grabbing their weaponry, and you see a burst of Pike's face coming through, her divine form, and she says, “I'm sorry–” (static) Disappears, comes back. “The walls–can't maintain–” And her form vanishes once again.

TRAVIS: Fucking Verizon.

(laughter)

LAURA: Great, now we'll never have them as a sponsor. Thank you, Travis.

LIAM: Go T-Mobile.

MATT: Go AT– No.

MARISHA: So can we have like a little family pow-wow in maybe one of the rooms before we all tuck in for the night and you put the masking tape over each of our doors so we don't sneak into each other's rooms. High school field trip, yeah?

SAM: I don't know any of those words.

MATT: “Do as you wish, we'll be here if you need us.”

TRAVIS: Do you need anything, drinks?

SAM: We need to talk to the little fucker.

TRAVIS: Then– oh, what? Oh, yeah! Well, let's all head inside for prayer.

LAURA: Actually–

TALIESIN: We'll need food and drink.

LAURA: Guard! One of you, could you go get us some food? We're very hungry.

MARISHA: And wine? Maybe some wine?

LAURA: As a baroness, I'm very used to getting food when I want it.

MATT: One of the guards steps forward and says, “Let me see that parchment once more, please?”

TRAVIS: That's not it.

MATT: That's a belt buckle.

(laughter)

LIAM: My belt buckle!

MATT: Rolls it back up, hands it back. “I will retrieve your necessary meal, drink, and other requests you may have.”

LIAM: Chicken, please.

LAURA: Thank you. I want anything but chicken.

MATT: “Noted and noted.” And he turns around and leaves the three other guards standing outside of your rooms to do about as you please.

SAM: Right, so we pick the biggest room and we all enter it.

MATT: It's a two-bedroom, opposite sides, and there is a window that has a beautiful view of the central lake that sits at the center of Syngorn, the entire city's built around, before it meets the base of the mountain range that it's buttressed against.

SAM: Titicaca.

MATT: That sounds Elvish, but it's not.

SAM: No, I just like saying that.

MATT: Door closes behind you guys.

TRAVIS: Gormidi?

MATT: There's a little flash, a sparkle of arcane light as the satyr form goes, (breathes heavily) “That was a little harrowing. You didn't tell me you were going to bring me into the belly of the beast so soon, we didn't even talk about– that was really good tea, by the way; that was quite delicious.”

TALIESIN: You were drinking our tea?

MATT: “Very quietly.”

MARISHA: I was wondering where my tea went.

TRAVIS: Now, hold on. Did you steal anything while you were in there?

MATT: “No!”

MARISHA: Garmelie…

MATT: “No!”

SAM: Insight-check him.

TRAVIS: Insight-check that bitch!

SAM: Natural one.

(laughter)

MATT: He is about as hard to read as anyone you've come across in the Feywild.

MARISHA: Can I try?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: I feel like we don't need an insight check to know he was lying.

MARISHA: Oh, I got a 17. I'm way more better than Scanlan. Natural insight. 28.

MATT: 28. Through his teeth.

MARISHA: I do a little entangling underneath of him and start checking his pockets, TSA style. Start giving him the frisk.

MATT: These vines wrap up around his legs and he's like, “Oh, I was just!”

MARISHA: Into the pockets.

TRAVIS: Just let it happen.

LAURA: Where are the pockets?

MATT: In his vest.

MARISHA: In his vest pockets.

TALIESIN: There better not be an owlbear in there or I'm going to be very upset.

MATT: No, you reach into one pocket, it's empty. You reach into the other, and your arm goes quite far into the pocket, farther than it should–

MARISHA: You little devil.

MATT: “What? This is extremely degrading! We had a deal.” It's empty.

MARISHA: Is this a pocket of holding? I think about the fancy silverware that I might've seen in Syldor's house.

MATT: Nothing. Just an empty space.

TRAVIS: Come on, keep going.

MARISHA: I think of fancy teacups, because he mentioned drinking tea.

MATT: (melodically) Nothing!

MARISHA: Goddamn it.

TRAVIS: You've never stolen anything, shit!

LAURA: Think of gold. Think of gold, Keyleth.

TALIESIN: I cast Friends.

MARISHA: I think of gold? Oh, I think of gold. Sorry, I'm not materialistic.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to have a working relationship.

LAURA: Why do you say that like it was a bad thing?

MARISHA: I mean, I'm not. I'm a Barbie girl in a Barbie world.

(laughter)

MATT: He smacks the side of your arm and is like, “Get your hand out of my pocket!”

MARISHA: Ow!

LIAM: Keyleth. Check the fur.

LAURA: No, don't check the fur.

MATT: “Excuse me?!”

TALIESIN: Let's give him a chance to 'fess up.

MATT: “This is not why we're here to talk. We are here to discuss the elements of our agreement. Two things I require your aid in taking, and then I show you to the outskirts of the Shademirk.”

LAURA: I feel like now we already know where the outskirts of the Shademirk are.

MATT: “But do you know of the dangers that are on your way?”

SAM: Yeah, you told us about all three dangers that we have to face.

MARISHA: That's true. I have them written down.

(laughter)

MARISHA: The Hut of Wodenna, the Last Camp of Sorudun the Happy, and the theatre.

MATT: “And you think those are all the dangers?! There are so many! It's a dangerous place! Stop touching me!”

TRAVIS: All right, hands off him.

SAM: Just tell us what the two things are we that we need to steal.

MATT: “All right. I require a piece of a threshold crest.”

LAURA: What the fuck is that?

MARISHA: Of a threshold crest?

LIAM: Giant stones on the outside of the city.

MATT: “Threshold crest.” Which you recall are the blue stones that are in the wall around the city.

LAURA: That's the stupidest thing.

MARISHA: Oh no!

MATT: “Why is that stupid?”

LAURA: Because then they can't go back!

MATT: “You don't have to get it from the wall. I'm sure they build it from something and there might be a reserve somewhere.”

MARISHA: Right, in the other dimension that they came from. You realize Syngorn didn't originate here in the Feywild, right?

MATT: “I understand, but just…”

MARISHA: Oh, lord have– oh, sweet Sarenrae.

TALIESIN: Wait, okay, a threshold– a piece?

MATT: “A piece of a threshold crest. Just but a sliver.”

LIAM: The same material?

MATT: “The same material enchanted that is functionally able to be utilized in the same fashion.”

TRAVIS: No problem. What else?

MATT: “Great. I also want the High Warden Tyrelda's hat.”

TRAVIS: Her hat?

LAURA: Do we know what her hat looks like?

MATT: You do, actually.

LAURA: What does it look like?

MATT: It's a pointed, small tricorn made of green velvet that she wears when she goes on like excursions outside of the city.

MARISHA: Oh my god, she's got a pirate tri-corner hat?

MATT: It's small and very long. Imagine a pirate hat with a little more of an elven sleekness to it.

LAURA: Wait, like a Robin Hood hat? Like Peter Pan!

MARISHA: Oh my god, like Peter Pan!

MATT: Sure, yeah!

LIAM: I wasn't looking forward to this moment, but that actually sounds like fun.

LAURA: That's it, that's all you need?

MATT: “That's all! And I will fulfill my side of the deal.”

MARISHA: I have a vague idea of why you might want a piece of the threshold crest, but why would you want the High Warden's hat?

MATT: “Because I have my reasons.”

TALIESIN: So. Are you going to give us what you stole now? We have an arrangement.

MATT: “We do have an arrangement.”

TALIESIN: It's only fair. Come on.

MATT: Reaches into his pocket and pulls out what looks to be a very finely sculpted bronze statue of Syldor that was gifted for essentially his work with Emon and establishing better trade routes between that city and this city. It's basically a good job, salesman of the year award of Syldor's.

MARISHA: They stole his Emmy?

MATT: Kind of, yeah.

LAURA: No, it's like they stole his gold watch.

LIAM: I yoink it out of his hand. I'll take that. I got it right here.

SAM: It's a belt buckle.

LIAM: Right on my belt.

TRAVIS: So weird, you pickpocketed the thing that wasn't even expensive.

LAURA: Why did you take that?

SAM: He can't help it, he's a klepto.

MATT: “No! It was there and nobody was looking.”

MARISHA: Because it ultimately doesn't matter. You know how awards work. Come on.

MATT: “Regardless, we have business to tend to. Come, we have a hat to catch!”

LIAM: Oh, you want to come along?

MARISHA: Oh, hang on, before we all leave. Vex and Vax, what did your dad do back in the day? Because he knows Allura and he talked about knowing Thordak.

LAURA: He's an ambassador to the city.

MARISHA: Does he have any type of fighting capabilities?

LAURA: Ugh. If he does, we never saw it.

LIAM: Yeah, he'll bore you to death.

LAURA: Yeah, he can talk a lot.

MARISHA: Because it sounds like he was a part of the mission to lock in Thordak 11 or so years ago.

LAURA: What? No way.

MARISHA: He mentioned that he's been down this road before.

LAURA: He knows Allura because he knew the Council members. He was the one that sent us off to find…

LIAM: He's a traveling salesman that sells politics. He's not anything all that fancy.

MARISHA: Well, if he sells politics, there could be a lot in selling war against a dragon. I'm not trying to be a dick, but your father was kind of a dick so I'm just questioning it.

LAURA: No, he's an asshole. That's totally fine.

MARISHA: I'm not trying to talk shit about your family.

LAURA: No, feel free.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Y'all should totally fight right now. Just fight in the room while we're all here and take off your clothes.

MARISHA: I'm just saying.

TRAVIS: Only way to solve it.

LAURA: Totally, totally.

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: No, that's a very dark and disturbing thought. I'm very impressed.

MARISHA: Thank you! I've been learning from you.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Now I feel guilty.

MARISHA: I don't mean to question to him, he just said a few things that raised a few hairs on the back of my spine.

LAURA: Well, maybe we can ask him about it?

TRAVIS: You have hair on your spine?

MARISHA: About this time I use Alter Self to go a little half-Minxie and get those– like when a dog is pissed off and it puffs up the hair, towards Grog.

MATT: She shows you this emerging patch of fur that is like, shh, pushing out the back of her shoulders.

LAURA: That's real sexy.

TRAVIS: Pretty sweet.

LAURA: Pretty hot.

TALIESIN: It is a very fair point, although I would say I think it would be best to talk to Allura about your father rather than talk to him again, I think he's possibly had enough of us for a while.

TRAVIS: So we have the meeting, we go get the tricorn hat from her, like, boudoir and then we go get the crest on the way out, right?

SAM: Maybe we can even find a clue about where this crest thing is from the meeting.

MATT: “Grand! That's a great idea! That's a great idea.”

LAURA: Should we sleep before the meeting?

TALIESIN: I think the meeting is actually tomorrow.

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: It just says we get one meeting, I don't think it's been “sheduled” yet. Should we go “shedule” it?

LAURA: Let's “shedule” the meeting.

TRAVIS: Or maybe we could send one of the shitty guards to go “shedule” it for us.

LAURA: Is he back from getting us food? Oh no, I hope he's not, because I want to send a second one out there.

SAM: Ooh! Because you're a lady.

LAURA: Because I'm a baroness.

TRAVIS: I don't think they're going to leave us all alone.

TALIESIN: I have made such a terrible mistake.

(laughter)

MATT: You go and check, you check the hallway, and the guard hasn't returned and the three suddenly spin around as the door opens.

LAURA: Hello! We require a meeting with the High Warden.

MARISHA: I do a little gust cantrip from behind the door to make her hair blow in the wind.

(laughter)

MATT: “I need to take this with me. To make the meeting schedulable.”

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

LAURA: “Shedulable.”

MATT: “Shedulable.”

TRAVIS: Bidet!

SAM: When would we like the meeting? Tonight or tomorrow?

LAURA and LIAM: Tomorrow.

MATT: You guys did wake up about four hours ago?

LIAM: Did we?

SAM: Today! Later today.

TALIESIN: We'll take the meeting today.

SAM: Right after siesta.

LIAM: It's like northern Alaska.

MATT: “Very well. I'll return.” He turns around and leaves and the two guards look at each other like, thank god it wasn't us. They both stand at the ready as he goes.

TALIESIN: Let that be a lesson to the two of you about making fun of a foreigner's accent. I'm watching you.

MATT: As the door slowly closes.

TALIESIN: Schedulable!

MATT: The faun, of which is currently– Garmelie is up on one of the beds right now, stretched out. “So! What are you waiting for?”

LAURA: That's your bed, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Aw, man.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Brings up one leg.

LAURA: Trinket jumps up on the bed and snuggles in with him.

MATT: “No, don't, ugh!” (bear noises)

MARISHA: Aw, they're shedding on it!

MATT: (creak, crash) The bottom cracks and the bed actually falls flat on the ground. The springs destroyed.

TALIESIN: It's all right, it's a futon now. It's like college.

TRAVIS: Have we seen any of these threshold crests on our way in?

LIAM: Yeah, we walked past some.

MARISHA: They're those little blue stones that are keeping the city here.

TRAVIS: Don't say it like it's obvious. I don't pay attention to shit.

LAURA: But we just need a sliver of one.

TRAVIS: Right, so like, I could take Vax's head and smash it against one and then pick up the pieces. No, that's a bad thing from your frown.

MARISHA: Although Grog doesn't have the worst idea. And I don't mean smashing Vax's head. That's not what I mean. But don't we have some hidden gems, because I'm really terrified if we start hacking away at these stones what might happen.

LAURA: They might not be able to return.

MARISHA: So maybe we can do something kind of fakey.

SAM: He's in the room.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Is he asleep? He's asleep, right?

MATT: No, he's currently partially crushed by Trinket on the bed and goes like, “I can hear you!”

TRAVIS: I mean, we have jewels and shit, just stuff hanging around, but what does that do?

SAM: No, how do we know if we can chip a piece off without ruining it?

LAURA: I wouldn't risk it.

LIAM: I think we should talk to some people and ask a couple of questions around town first.

LAURA: Yeah. Maybe somebody, maybe the High Warden knows. Maybe we can sneak it out of there or something.

LIAM: Just drop it in passing.

TRAVIS: Ooh! Like a souvenir. “Can we have a piece of your threshold crest?”

LAURA: Exactly like that, Grog, exactly like that.

TRAVIS: Shit, I have got all the good ideas today.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I'm the leader. So what do we do until the guard comes back?

MATT: The door opens, the guard comes around with food and hands it out to the rest of–

LAURA: Does anybody have money for a tip? Because I think you're supposed to tip them.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: “You're not supposed to tip your guards.” (boof) Slams the door behind.

MARISHA: That's an Emon tradition. We're overseas, remember.

TALIESIN: I like it here.

MATT: All right. You finish your meal.

LAURA: It's delicious!

MATT: And prepare yourselves for an excursion into the city of Syngorn to seemingly steal a piece of the threshold crest and the High Warden Tyrelda's travel hat.

MARISHA: I turn into Minxie and resign to the idea that I'm going to be sleeping with Garmelie and Trinket and just cuddle next to them in Minxie mode.

LAURA: Are you coming with us, though, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Oh, we're not sleeping?

SAM: No. It's like one in the afternoon, so we'll probably just go.

LIAM: But you know, blow a couple more spells.

MATT: So that's one use of your beast form.

LAURA: Just come on, then.

MARISHA: I'll come on.

LIAM: Just save it. You can stay like that, just walk close to me.

MARISHA: Am I going to freak people out if I walk around like this?

TALIESIN: God, I hope so.

LAURA: Fuck them, that's what I say.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way outside into the city streets of Syngorn to hopefully wait for the other guard, who returns about ten minutes later to tell you, “It has been 'sheduled.'”

TRAVIS: Ah, very good.

MATT: “As soon as you wish, attend to the central palace and there you will be greeted.”

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: “Are you leaving now?”

SAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Well, we waste no time.

MATT: Makes a big whistle and the other guards come down, and collectively you now have four guards watching you guys.

TRAVIS: Four?

LAURA: Yeah. There were four of them.

MARISHA: I drop Minxie form, because that seems very aggressive.

SAM: As we walk I say to Vax: Oi, Vax. What is the reason for this meeting? When we get in there, what do we say to her?

MARISHA: Can we have your hat?

LIAM: I don't think we should lead with that. Maybe work our way around to it. Well, I would like advice other than this little hairy man for how to get to the bog.

LAURA: And also what we might face.

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: And how we can fight what we might face.

MARISHA: She might know about Fenthras and the bow.

LAURA: Yes, exactly.

TRAVIS: Wait, Scanlan, can't you go invisible too? What if you two little buggers just went off and like found it on your own while we were distracting Captain Fancy Hat.

SAM: Find Fenthras on our own, what?

TRAVIS: Yeah, you go invisible along with Fauny Tim over here and you just go find the fucking hat.

SAM: Oh, the hat.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: What if she's wearing the hat? What if the hat is on her head?

TRAVIS: We kill everybody.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: To be fair, that usually is the plan.

MATT: And thus ended the story of Vox Machina, murdered terribly in the streets of Syngorn by their own people.

TALIESIN: Clutching a hat.

TRAVIS: Tarantino film.

MATT: As you guys make your way towards the palace, formulating your plan, we're going to go ahead and take a quick bathroom break here. Guys, about ten, 15 minutes or so, we'll be back here in just a little bit. So use your restrooms, stretch your legs and come back. We'll see you all here in a few minutes.
Break

[no audio]
Part II

(cheering)

MATT: That's a lot of people. Welcome back. First off, I want to say a big thanks to Amanda Mclean for making our awesome graphic for our intermission, thank you Amanda, appreciate that.

(cheering)

MATT: We are back. Brought to you by Loot Crate. Let's dive back in, as you guys make your way through the city of Syngorn towards the palace to what would be the northern side of the city. Eventually you come upon the large, slightly swirling stairs that lead to the front of the large brass and ivory surrounded doorway that leads to the interior. You guys have not actually been inside this palace before; you've only seen it from a distance, as your father would not let you in too close to the center of the city. As you make your way up the stairs, you can see guards, the Verdant Guards step out in an aggressive and defensive way, but the guards to your sides immediately put their hands up and signal them to put their arms down and to stand at ease. You guys are brought to the front, the doors open, and a small elderly elvish gentleman comes out, his long white hair almost touching the ground as he shuffles up. He brings a small monocle up to the side of his face. “Yes? Do you have business in the palace?”

LIAM: G'day mate.

MARISHA: Good day.

LAURA: We do. We have a meeting with the High Warden Tyrelda.

MATT: “Let me see your papers. Oh, I see they're right here. Very well. Follow me, please.” He turns around and walks his way into the building. You all follow suit and are led through the main entryway to the palace itself. On the inside you can see these giant archways that the pillars that hold them up look like trees that spread to the top like the stone boughs actually hold a canopy made of marble with beautiful portraits and long artistic renditions of the creation of Syngorn, the people, each bloodline that has progressed and taken on the central political structure of the city. As it goes, you can see busts of people who have been of historical importance to Syngorn, and eventually you're brought to the very end of this hallway. Amongst a series of other offshoot hallways and doors, there is the next portion of this journey, this large central chamber. The door is already partially ajar. You are led into what seems to be the equivalent of a throne room, but it appears that there is a half-circle table in the center of the room and a series of chairs that now sit empty across from one side. Your side. The other side of the table, you see sitting quietly and patiently, an older elven woman, you can see the grey in her hair and the crow's-nests at the corner of her eyes, which in elven years means she's quite old, she's probably close to 150 or 200 years old, by your gathering. They can live quite a long time. She would be in the equivalent of her late 50s.

SAM: Not old enough for our party to kill mercilessly.

MATT: No, that's a whole different gauge.

LIAM: Throwback Thursday.

LAURA: Is she wearing a hat?

MATT: She is not wearing a hat.

TRAVIS: Shit. All right, she lives.

MATT: The guard behind ushers you guys forward toward the chairs. You all get the idea that you should sit.

SAM: We sit.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Are there chairs for all of us?

MATT: There are chairs for all of you but Trinket, who currently, one of the guards is helping to put his hands out in front to keep back, like.

LAURA: No.

LIAM: That's a good way to lose a finger.

LAURA: I wouldn't mess with him if I were you, just to be safe. And I walk up and I give Trinket a kiss on the nose and I put him in his Pokeball.

MATT: The guard leaps back for a second. “That's much easier.”

LAURA: Just watch closely, buddy.

MATT: You step back, you all find your seats.

LAURA: Just talking to my boobs. No big deal.

LIAM: Buddy, buddy.

(laughter)

MATT: This meeting room pavilion, and as you all have your seat, you see the High Warden waiting there patiently, smile on her face but definitely an expression that shows both intelligence and guard. As you all sit, she looks about the group, asks, “So you've all come and made arrangements to meet with me. You've come quite a ways and with very short notice. I'm curious as to what your reasonings are. Please, state your business.”

LIAM: You probably recognize the two of us even if you don't know us. We're Syldor's children. This is my sister Vex'ahlia. I'm Vax'ildan.

MATT: “Strange. It has been some time since you've been within the city. Welcome.”

LIAM: Thank you.

LAURA: We're back because we're searching for a certain bow, Fenthras? Said to be within the Murk something?

LIAM: Bog of Eternal Stench, I believe.

MARISHA: Shadowmurk Bog. That's the one.

MATT: “The Shademirk?”

MARISHA: Shademirk. That's it.

LIAM: It's not on a lark. We're not a bunch of fly-by-nights. We've already stopped to see Vex's and my father. Over the last several months, we have been dealing, a little more closely than most would want, with the Conclave, these dragons. We know that you are struggling to do the same. We have felled two of them, and I don't say that to brag, just to impress upon you how serious we are. We've come a long way, and we are in need of help. Thank you, darling. I think that the city's intentions are in the best possible place. Brings me a great deal of personal satisfaction, actually. I would like to offer our aid in service of the very same purpose, and that bow, in my sister's hands, will go a long way to felling more of these beasts.

MATT: “Well. You stroll in here with a great deal of arrogance and an air of self-importance. Not in a way that is negative, more in a way that means you aspire, and I hope, not reaching beyond your means. If you have indeed felled these two members of the Conclave as you say, then perhaps this errand to the Shademirk is not as dangerous as one would expect. I would not deny you this, and if you indeed have these capabilities, you should have no issue surviving the Mirk, you and your companions.”

LAURA: Syldor sent us here because he said you would know what we might face in the Shademirk.

MATT: “Well. The Shademirk, as far as I understand, was once a very beautiful landscape. That once was the fountain heart of the Gilded Run that provided the flowing rivers that spun throughout this entire region. There was an archfey many years before who was turned on by his beloved, who had been growing so spiteful, so full of angst and anger and vengeful thoughts that it turned his heart dark and black and he began to spill into the fen around him. It was there that these lands became the Shademirk. It was there that he became one with the land and corrupted it and turned it. Dryads turned foul and shadowed. Other creatures began to crawl up from the bog itself, and to this day feed off the life of those they can reach. The only thing that holds its spread at bay is the Gilded Run, the rapids. Now, it's found balance, and we watched it spread, as those who've lived here for a long time do. It does not force any sort of immediate threat to any of us, and it serves its own purpose. It has its new– I shouldn't say new, it's been hundreds of years now– but its own life, its own biome. And we could not be ones to mess with that, if you will. But it is dangerous, and it is, for those who have scouted far enough to see it, say it is akin to wading through an oil slick. It is to walk into a hungry swamp that never gives up its need to feed.”

LAURA: Sounds lovely.

MATT: “Yes, quite.”

LAURA: You say you've lived here. I know the city goes back and forth between the Feywild. Do you travel more freely?

MATT: “I haven't in my older years. When I was younger, perhaps. It is important to maintain an idea of the current state of the Feywild. Every few decades, perhaps every generation, just to be certain when we have to undergo this transition that we don't come into the middle of a war zone in its own right. But I grow tired in my older years, and find myself chained to politics more often than not.”

LAURA: How did you make that transition so easily? I know that the threshold crests are how the city gets around.

(laughter)

MATT: “Well, there are thin areas between the planes, there are doorways, and we have magical means to send small scouting parties between this veil.”

SAM: Go on.

LAURA: Well, I don't want to be a bother, yes, but. Do they entail any part of those threshold crests? I'm wondering because perhaps we might find ourselves in need of traveling, as well.

LIAM: We know we're strangers. But we read much wisdom and experience in your eyes, and it would seem that you have encountered this place yourself, or have experience in the past with those who have, and we're just looking for an edge, really.

MATT: You make a persuasion check.

LAURA: Oh, do I want to roll this one or do I want to roll–

TRAVIS: Oh, just pick one.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: The ever-plight of Laura Bailey.

LAURA: Ooh! That's a good, that's a good, I'm glad I switched!

TRAVIS: There are 300 fucking dice on this table.

LAURA: 27.

LIAM: Ooh.

MATT: “We have refined the art of creating the threshold crests. We have personalized enchantments that can be utilized for our trained spies, our trained guides, our trained scouts. We keep them under lock and key, but when an endeavor requires the transference between planes, we do on occasion allow these to go into the hands of our greatest guides.”

LAURA: If a party would be in search of an item that would be of great use to your survival, would that be worthy?

LIAM: Listen, we know we're bastards.

LAURA: Stop bringing up the bastard part!

LIAM: Clearly. Look into my eyes, we share the same goal. Half of my blood is yours. I want to kill the threat to your city and to all cities. I ask with complete humility. I know what I'm asking. Please.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: Which one? Him or me?

MATT: Him.

LAURA: Fuck, can I give him advantage, can I help him?

LIAM: Using Luck.

MATT: No, he's got Luck. He has his own.

LAURA: Come on, you motherfucker.

LIAM: Ouch. I rolled the same thing. Low number twice. No, that's a big five.

LAURA: Wait, no, everything's ten. I thought everything was a ten!

LIAM: No, that's right, you're right. So that is a–

LAURA: 12.

LIAM: No, 13.

SAM: Oh, that's better.

MATT: It's better.

LAURA: Why did you talk? I think she would've listened to me.

(laughter)

MATT: “I appreciate your intent, and I understand that our current paths will hopefully align in the near future. However, such artifacts are very important to us and the business within Syngorn, and I mean no offense in saying that you are no longer residents of our city. As such, no, I cannot provide you with these crystals. However, when the time comes, and you retrieve this bow which you say you seek, I hope that we can count each other brethren on the battlefield.”

TRAVIS: Can I look around the room? Are there any doors open, ajar, leading into a bedroom with a hat on a rack?

MATT: Make a perception check, Grog.

SAM: Are there any guards in here with us?

MATT: Yeah, the guards have led you in, they're just back by the front door you entered.

TALIESIN: There's a hat rack and a Starbucks, that's what's in the room right there. It's a hat rack and a Starbucks.

TRAVIS: 19. Natural.

LIAM: I'm rusty on my rules. That should've been a 17.

MATT: What'd you roll?

LIAM: I rolled a three, but because of reliable talent, anything lower counts as a ten. Ten plus my persuasion of seven is 17. I'm just rusty.

MATT: I understand. Same answer.

(laughter)

LIAM: That is racist!

MATT: No, that is a very closely guarded item that would've required a roll of 20 or higher to succeed.

LIAM: The whole time I was like, that seems wrong to me; that it's so low.

MATT: Yeah man, reliable talent's good for that reason.

LAURA: Why did your luck suck that time?

MATT: It's all right. Grog, glancing about the room, your suddenly strangely keen giant eyes in an elvish realm, you who can read patterns in rock and mountain faces, but when looking at finely crafted marble it's just a big mess. You see at the very back of the chamber what appears to be an imprint into one of the sculptures, one of the almost silver and brass latticework that tends to look like climbing roots and vines across the back of the room. There is a door that is recessed within that, though it's hidden in the sculpture itself. “Now. Unless you have other business?”

SAM: I have a little bit of business.

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: Good, carry on. Sorry.

SAM: Everyone who meets me knows I am a collector of hats.

(laughter)

SAM: I take out my beret and I put it on and I say, why, this one was a very special beret I got by defending Whitestone against an invasion of vampires, singlehandedly freeing the city from the scourge.

MATT: “That sounds entirely believable.”

SAM: Yes. It's a fine garment woven by a master craftsman. I hear you have a fine hat, as well, that you've been seen wearing about town. Is that true?

TALIESIN: I wish I could say this isn't true, but it's actually true. He is genuine.

MATT: “I have been known to have a few garments based on where I'm going, yes.”

SAM: As a fine appreciator of the haberdasher arts–

(laughter)

SAM: A connoisseur, really. Could you humor an old gnome like me and show me… I hear tell of a green hat. A tri-tip hat, right?

MARISHA: I thought it was blue.

SAM: Blue hat?

MARISHA: Might be green.

TALIESIN: He's also colorblind, I should mention.

SAM: Tri-tip, triangular– I just hear it's fantastic, I've never seen one quite like it up close. I was wondering if I could take a look-see.

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: With disadvantage.

MATT: Yeah, because you didn't sleep.

MARISHA: Yeah, you didn't sleep, Scanlan!

SAM: Well, that was a natural 20. But the first one was a six. Luckily, it's plus 14, so 20.

(laughing and cheering)

[no audio]

MATT: Bards! “From political requests to a hat collector, this is indeed a very strange afternoon in the palace. Yes, I can have one of my servants show you.”

SAM: Thank you so much, it would mean so much to me. I've never met a hat I didn't like.

MATT: “Then I am certain you will be fulfilled.”

SAM: Should we just wait here, or is it going to be a while?

MATT: “No, I'll have a servant bring you up.” And she puts her hand up and the guards open the door and you see a servant walk out who looks to be a younger elven man. Actually probably about the age of Vax there. Short tattered hair comes across in front of his eyes. He enters. “Yes, mother?” “Could you please show this strange little gnome man to the hat room?” “Yes, of course. Yes. Follow me.”

SAM: There's a hat room? I have a hat room in my place, too!

MATT: “That's splendid. Now, is there any other business?”

TALIESIN: Just to be clear, you would say that the river is probably our safest mode of entry into the bog?

MATT: “It surrounds the bog and runs past the southern portion of it, so you'll most likely come upon the river one way or another. Lest you wish to traverse the Green Sea, but that I would not recommend, either.”

MARISHA: So there's no real easy way into the bog, is what you're saying?

MATT: “There's no easy way to anything in the Feywild, my child.”

MARISHA: Got it.

LAURA: Have you seen the tree yourself?

MATT: “I have not.”

TALIESIN: Are there river men who run boats on the river?

MATT: “No, the river tends to run itself.”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I had that coming. That's fair.

TRAVIS: That's good.

MATT: “Do you wish to inquire about my shoes? My coat perhaps…”

MARISHA: Oh my god, they're so cute, though. They're amazing shoes. I didn't notice them until you pointed them out, sorry. No, continue on.

MATT: “Is that all?”

TALIESIN: I think that's all, yes.

MATT: “All right. Good luck. I wish you safe–”

MARISHA: Oh, wait, wait, lady!

SAM: High Warden, High Warden.

MARISHA: High Warden. I'm sorry. I was just curious. It's my first time to Syngorn, and it's in the Feywild. It's special, right? Is there a gift shop? A visiting the temple and sights of Syngorn type of shop?

SAM: I went to Syngorn and all I got was this lousy shirt?

MARISHA: Right!

LAURA: We have to make that shirt!

LIAM: Shirt after this one.

MATT: “I'll see what Braum can do. Braum, please escort them to some semblance of a gift shop.”

MARISHA: Oh, thank you!

TALIESIN: Good luck.

MATT: “Now, I have important business to tend to. Good luck. Safe travels. Don't die. Let us see each other on the battlefield soon to slay a dragon. Now, please, be on your way.”

LAURA: We appreciate your time.

MATT: You guys get up and leave, Trinket goes–

LAURA: Trinket's in my necklace.

MATT: That's right, Trinket is in your necklace, so Trinket does nothing.

LAURA: Trinket does nothing but stare outside of the necklace.

MATT: You make your way out of the room, the guards following suit. You can see the lightish brownish reddish tousled hair of the elven boy who's waiting, he's wearing very fine clothing, though very baggy on his scrawny frame. As you all step out, he says, “All right, so, I'm to take you to the hat room, I believe. Oh, you're going to be very happy. It's quite the room.”

SAM: The room I could care less about, it's those hats!

MATT: “Well, I think you'll still be pleased. Are you all coming?”

(noises of agreement)

LIAM: Traveling with Scanlan, we've all become amateur hat enthusiasts.

LAURA: I pull out my hat and I put it on.

TRAVIS: Yep, I pull out the rhinoceros horn.

LIAM: (gong)

(laughter)

MATT: And he pulls out a little masquerade mask and goes like, “Oh my goodness!”

SAM: You're a hatter, too!

MARISHA: Do you get the monthly newsletter?

MATT: “Well, I used to, until we came to the Feywild. It's very boring these days. Well, come, please!” And he darts off excitedly down the hallway. The guards groan loudly behind you. You make your way through the second hallway on the left of the palace, down a flight of stairs into a storage room. To the left you can see what looks to be the entrance to some sort of a heavily barred metallic doorway, about ten feet wide, about 12 feet tall. Further down you come to two doorways. He pulls out a keyring, goes, “No, not that one. Ah, here we are.” It opens up into a small room, you can see in here, it's a display room. In here you can see ornamental armor and helmets and all sorts of classic Syngorean designs, which change often because, well, elves when they don't have a lot of things to fill their time with, it's all about designing new outfits and new armor. There's a whole display of very classic designs for the guards, for the watchers, for the people who first founded Syngorn. It's like a history walk through. But there is a section that is primarily helmet designs for different stations and, “This is as close to a hat room as we have. This here is part of the original Temple of Ioun design. It is a delightful piece.” He keeps going on and on.

LAURA: Do we see the hat that we're looking for in here?

MATT: You do see there is a small rack to the side which is for more just things that are used and you can see there are like wide-brim, rainy-day, carriage-driving hats, you can see there are far-brimmed cloak hoods that are used for horse-riding beneath the rain, you can see there are a few more curved up to one side archer-based hats, and you can see there a nice green velvet hat that is resting across.

LIAM: Is that the one area with hats?

LAURA: Are they all just jumbled in together?

MATT: They're all jumbled in together in that corner and then the actual helmets are against the wall in different setups.

LIAM: Go ahead.

LAURA: I nudge Vax and I point it out.

LIAM: Scanlan, look at all those codpieces across the room!

LAURA: Are the guards in here with us?

MATT: They are, yes.

LAURA: I prat-fucking-fall. I pratfall right in front of the guards, on the opposite side of the room.

MATT: Which one?

LAURA: I walk to the other side of the room and I just fall over.

LIAM: Eat shit, knock shit over.

MATT: Make a perform check.

LAURA: Oh, shit. Can it be acrobatics, though?

MATT: No, acrobatics is avoiding the fall.

LAURA: Shit. Okay. 19?

MATT: 19!

LAURA: I want to take some shit down with me.

MATT: And you do, delightfully so. You fall over, trip, go into a tumble, grab arm over pieces of metallic armor, (crashing sound).

LAURA: Ah, oh god, did you see that–

MARISHA: Oh my god, Vex, are you okay?

LAURA: I think there was a marble on the ground.

MARISHA: Oh no, what? Keyleth turns to the guard.

(laughter)

MARISHA: That was Lady Vex'ahlia, the Baroness of Whitestone. I could sue you! I could sue you for negligence.

MATT: Make a sleight-of-hand check.

SAM: Hold on, he's making a check.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: All right. You take the hat. You place it away. Everyone seems to be focused on the currently yelling Vex'ahlia–

LAURA: Ow, I think I hurt my wrist!

MARISHA: You will get a letter from me, good sir. You will get a letter, okay?

MATT: “This was, look, I apologize if your friend is clumsy, but this wasn't part of our job description, okay, it's been a very–”

MARISHA: Your five-star review just went to a four, okay? I just want to say.

MATT: Braum pushes his way in and goes like, “I am so terribly sorry. I didn't mean– I hope this hasn't ruined your opinion of the hat room.”

LAURA: If we could just see a gift shop, I would be thrilled.

TRAVIS: And I say to the side, I go, (coughs) pinch my knee, is that the one?

MARISHA: What?

MATT: “Are you feeling all right, sir?”

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, (coughs) pinch my knee if that's the one. No, to the little, to the little satyr.

TALIESIN: Let's just find a gift shop, Lady Tyrell doesn't need to hear anything about this. Let's just move on.

MATT: “Lady who?”

MARISHA and SAM: High Warden Tyrelda.

TALIESIN: Tyrelda.

SAM: Yes, well, there's another lady named Lady Tyrell, who's…

TALIESIN: No, this is amazing what my handwriting does.

LIAM: What did you put in that tea, Percival?

MATT: “Well, I'm glad to see this hasn't ruined your opinion of the collections here.”

LIAM: Just the safety codes, really.

MARISHA: If you took us to the gift shop, it might fix things. Okay?

MATT: “Then come, come! You two clean this up!” And the two guards go, “What?” “Yes, my lord.” And the two guards eye you very intensely as they walk over and start picking up all the pieces of armor–

LAURA: Ow!

MARISHA: I start pretending like I'm doing a Cure Wounds spell to her wrist, you know?

MATT: All right. As you guys make your way out, with two of the guards now; two of them are now left behind.

TALIESIN: As we walk out, I just make sure the two guards are, I hope this didn't interrupt your schedules for today.

SAM: “Shedule.”

TALIESIN: Yes, schedule.

MATT: Somehow their chin goes higher. It's impressive, really. You make your way through, down another set of hallways, back towards the beginning of the palace, he goes, “It's not really a gift shop, the closest thing that we could ascertain based on your request is, we do have a small collection of gifts and knick-knacks we've received from allies over time that really aren't much use to us.”

MARISHA: Wait, you're taking us to the lost and found? Please! This is the high baroness Lady Vex'ahlia!

MATT: “Perhaps you'll find something you like.”

LAURA: No, lost and found is a wonderful place to go.

MATT: “It's a combination lost and found and just… gifts from political allies that didn't understand the High Warden's aesthetic. Yes, no, please, this way please.” And he leads you back to the main hallway you guys walked through, a little ways towards the entrance, and then another hallway to the left, he unlocks and this is straight-up like a dark storage room, it is just boxes and boxes that are sealed and he lights a small lantern on the side. It flickers to life, and the flame itself, as opposed to a low oil lantern flicker is like a bright glowing light, you can see this is a magically set lantern, as most of the lights in the city are just everlit torches or things that flicker on and off as a light spell. It illuminates the room around you and you can see no one's walked in here in a while.

LIAM: These are for sale?

MATT: “No, these are for the taking should you wish.”

LAURA: Awesome.

SAM: Well, what do we see?

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Can I ask a logistical question?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Is Garmelie with us or did we leave him behind?

MATT: You don't know.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: You don't know.

SAM: Grog might know.

LIAM: 18.

MARISHA: Grog.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 18, 19, are you searching, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: What'd you get?

TRAVIS: Nine.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Wait, is this an investigation?

LAURA: Come on, natural 20!

MARISHA: Natural one.

LIAM: Oh, propeller beanie!

MATT: Keyleth is distracted by the pretty light in the fixture.

SAM: Natural one.

(laughter)

MATT: Scanlan comes up next to her and is equally distracted by this wonderful magical light. Like two moths to a flame. Percival?

TALIESIN: Nine.

MATT: Nine. All right. The two twins, you guys spend some time looking through the nearby riffraff and Braum is in the back, hoping you find something to satiate your need for gifts. The twins find their way through a few boxes, and you open up and there's small porcelain dolls, dressed up in ancient Emon's outfits and designs. You can see what looks to be very dusty Kraghammer designed weaponry, you can see what looks to be a bunch of small game pieces that half of them have been lost, like a chessboard of some kind, but only part of it's there. This is really the junk room. This is where all the really bad Christmas presents get put every year. “No, thanks, it's great!”

SAM: Is it like Storage Wars, where there might be something?

MATT: It could, it could be depending on how well you search.

SAM: Well, I searched terribly.

MATT: You did.

MARISHA: Keyleth starts talking up Braum. Braum?

MATT: Okay. Braum.

MARISHA: Braum. So, Braum. Where're you from?

MATT: “Syngorn?”

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Good start.

SAM: We don't have to distract him, he said it's all for the taking.

MARISHA: Oh, it's all for– really, oh.

SAM: No, that's fine, we don't have to.

MARISHA: You didn't see any distraction. You didn't see anything.

MATT: “I am so confused by all of you.”

LAURA: Can I try to do an arcana check to see if there's anything magic in the room?

MATT: Sure. Make an arcana check.

TRAVIS: I'll join you. Two.

LAURA: Oh shit, I just rolled off the table. How did I do that? 16.

MATT: Your untrained, though natural arcane instincts reveal to you that–

LAURA: I can speak with animals.

MATT: Yes, you can. And there are no animals here. Nothing even remotely magical seems to cross your attention span, unfortunately, and you guys spend a good hour in here sifting through–

LIAM: As, as we're digging in the corner, I say, I thought maybe coming back here I might like this city a little bit better, and I was fucking wrong.

LAURA: This place fucking sucks.

SAM: Let's get out of here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's nothing in here.

SAM: No, let's leave.

MARISHA: Okay, yeah, sure. Yeah.

TRAVIS: Let's go.

TALIESIN: Pick something pretty.

MARISHA: Your four-star rating just went down to a three.

TALIESIN: I am picking something random from the room.

MARISHA: And I'll also pick something random out of spite. I'll take this.

MATT: You have a fine tobacco box at your disposal now, Keyleth. You can write that down.

MARISHA: I like it. I chose it on purpose.

MATT: Percy, you find half of a jeweler's kit.

TALIESIN: That's perfect.

MARISHA: That's awesome.

TALIESIN: I am excited. Was it literally cut in half, like literally?

MATT: Half the supplies are there.

MARISHA: And did you say I had a half a tobacco box? Or no, just a tobacco box?

MATT: You had an older tobacco box.

MARISHA: An old tobacco box. All right. Yeah, sure.

MATT: Braum at this point goes, “I hope you've all found something you liked.”

LAURA: All right, I grab something random, too. I mean, if we're all doing it.

MATT: All right. You reach into the Syngorean Wal-mart gift bag on the way out.

LIAM: Come on, secret Santa.

LAURA: Come on. Roll for value.

MATT: No. I'll do that.

LAURA: No whammies.

MATT: You bring out what looks to be a really intricately carved music box made of dark wood.

LAURA: Ooh, that's neat.

MATT: As you shake it, you hear (ting-ting) little remnants of the last winding come through, and it seems to still play.

LAURA: Mine. I'm writing it down.

TRAVIS: All right, I want to reach in and grab something out of there too. All right, fine!

MATT: You reach in and you pull out a potato.

(laughter)

MATT: But it's been there for a while, so like the roots are growing out and everything.

LIAM: Oh, with leaves coming out of it.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I take a bite out of it.

MATT: That is a stale potato.

LIAM: Make a constitution check.

MARISHA: Keyleth takes the potato. Okay, give it to me, give it to me.

TRAVIS: Oh here you go. And I squash it in my hand.

MATT: (squelch) up the sides of it. Braum goes, “If you could clean that up?” And the guard goes aww and starts picking up the potato chunks off the ground.

LAURA: We're down to one!

LIAM: Hey gang, I feel like we've lost focus here.

(laughter)

LIAM: Maybe we should–

SAM: –get out of here.

LAURA: Oh, do we find any broken threshold crests?

MATT: You do not.

LAURA: Damn it.

MARISHA: Okay, wait, do we find any pictures of threshold crests? Or a postcard?

MATT: Nope.

TALIESIN: We're fine.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: We leave.

MARISHA: We'll just go.

SAM: We got the hat.

TALIESIN: We have a plan.

MATT: Braum leads you out of the room, closes and locks it behind, you guys walk back to the hallway that split off, you go past the large metal door again, find your way up into the foyer area at the front of the palace, he goes, “Well, I hope I've been of help to you. I hope I've delivered your interest in seeing our fine selection of helmets and hats here in Syngorn?”

SAM: I am more than satisfied. I will write a five-star review.

MATT: “I don't know what any of that means, but I assume that's good, and I thank you for that. Goodbye.”

LAURA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Charming.

MARISHA: Good day.

LAURA: Good day.

MATT: The guard that was cleaning the potato follows suit, you guys now have two guards, the other two have not returned. So you have two guards following you.

TRAVIS: I don't know if you guys noticed, but there was this recessed door up in the queenie's room, but I don't know if maybe she would have some fancy stuff back there. Can't shake these guards.

SAM: Well, some of us could slip in anyway, but what do you think we will find there?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't know. I just noticed, because I wasn't paying attention to all the talking.

MARISHA: I think Percy and I can fake them out.

SAM: Fake them out? What do you mean, fake them out?

MARISHA: Wait, is he around? Don't say it out loud.

TALIESIN: There's no fake. It's not faking. I've got a plan. It's not fake, I've got a plan. It's a good plan. But we should sit, recuperate, go somewhere quiet and figure out how we're getting to the bog.

MARISHA: How long have we been awake at this point?

MATT: You mean since you guys woke up this morning, I'd say six hours?

LAURA: That's it?

TRAVIS: We don't want to go try and bust one of the crests we already saw?

LAURA: We could seriously like fuck it up, what if they can't get back?

TRAVIS: Who gives a fuck?

LAURA: They have an entire army to help fight Thordak.

TRAVIS: I didn't think that far ahead, I'm sorry.

SAM: Well, Vex, they could repair it; they have magicians here and stuff.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: How do you repair a–

SAM: With arcane juju.

LAURA: You make a very good point. A very good point.

MARISHA: But they said they got these stones from the other side, from our realm.

LAURA: Maybe we should just go fucking check them out.

LIAM: The two guards are here to whole time, right?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Yeah. We should really go take a nap, I think we should go take a nap.

LAURA: This dusk is really making me–

MATT: Vex. You hear muttered under the breath of one of the guards, “Thank god.”

(laughter)

MATT: Very low; nobody else hears it.

MARISHA: I've got plenty of energy.

LAURA: I mean, is, is anyone else super duper tired? Are you guys tired?

MARISHA: I'm–

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Tired.

MARISHA: So tired.

LAURA: I look at the guards. I mean, are you guys tired? I mean, how do you even know what fucking time it is, right?

MARISHA: Right?

MATT: “Do you wish to be escorted to your quarters, then?”

LAURA: I would love to get some sleep.

MATT: “Please follow us.” And they both lead on, leading you back to the rooms you guys had set for the evening's rest. Eventually you get to your rooms, the guards stay stationed outside, and you are led into your individual spaces.

LAURA: There's windows though, yeah?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: And the guards leave us in our rooms, obviously.

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: So wait, are we all in our own individual rooms?

TALIESIN: We have earrings, we could just talk on the earrings.

MATT: You all go into a room together, then.

LAURA: Super duper happy, all together.

MATT: You have four rooms at your disposal and you all say, we're going to go sleep, and all go into one room with a broken bed.

SAM: We're a close-knit family.

LIAM: You can make your own assumptions.

MARISHA: We can go into our own rooms and I can fix it if we don't want to tip people off.

SAM: No, we do what we want.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're fucking close, man.

MATT: All right, you guys all enter the largest room where you met before, and as you all find your way in there, one of the guards goes, “You're going to sleep–”

MARISHA: It's for prayer. We have to pray. Remember, right, Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh yes, we're very holy.

LAURA: Yes, it's been quite a while. I'm rather hungry.

SAM: We all sleep together; it's a polyamorous thing.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I told you we were holy.

MATT: Scanlan and Vex, make deception checks, please.

LAURA: Perception?

MATT and LIAM: Deception.

LAURA: Deception. Oh. Ten?

SAM: 21.

LIAM: (cackles) That's the lie that goes through.

MATT: When you say you're tired and ready to rest, the guard goes, “Mm-hm.” And then when you say polyamorous, the guard goes, “Oh.”

(laughter)

SAM: Yeah, man. We are freak-ay.

LIAM: I grab Grog by the circlet thing and say, come on, I'm tense. Let's go.

(laughter)

MATT: The two guards, the two guards look at each other and take two steps away from the room. “We'll keep a close watch.”

MARISHA: Keyleth says, we're totally polyamorous–

TALIESIN: You! No!

MARISHA: And I turn Percy and Vax into squirrels with Polymorph. See? Polyamorous.

MATT: The two guards look at each other, very disturbed and say, “You've already shared too much, we don't judge, just please go 'sleep'.” They both hold their blades at the ready, both just like, “What is my life right now?” All right.

SAM: We may need you to clean up for us later.

MATT: “Please! Go! Sleep!” You guys are now closed off inside your room.

LAURA: And the squirrels.

MATT: As squirrels. What are you going to do?

MARISHA: Okay, I drop Polymorph. That's what polyamorous means, right, guys?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Garmelie, show thyself.

MATT: He appears and goes like, “Was that true?”

(laughter)

MATT: He has his sketchbook at the ready and is like, “Because I mean…”

TALIESIN: No. No.

SAM: You don't know.

MATT: “Well.” He closes the book. “So. I believe someone here took a hat?”

LIAM: I might have a hat for you. The other adventure didn't turn out so well, and I really want to give you this hat. I'm wondering– fuck it, I don't have anything to say, take the fucking hat.

MATT: And he puts it on. It's a little small. But he goes, “Ah, it's fine.” Smiles back.

LIAM: So worth it.

LAURA: Yeah. That was definitely worth it.

MATT: He seems extremely proud and happy that this hat is now in his possession. “One of two. Now, the second part.”

SAM: Any ideas there, Garmelie?

MATT: “No.”

LAURA: You passed by those threshold crests several times, I'm assuming.

TALIESIN: Let me get this straight, Garmelie. You require of us a piece of a threshold crest.

MATT: “Yes.”

TALIESIN: Any threshold crest.

MATT: “Yes!”

TALIESIN: Just as long as it's a threshold crest.

MATT: “Yes!”

MARISHA: And looks like a crest.

TALIESIN: It's a threshold crest.

MATT: “A threshold crest.”

TALIESIN: Okay, Keyleth. The thing we talked about.

MARISHA: And I start casting Stone Shape right under the threshold of the door to the room that we're in, and I cut out a crest from the threshold.

MATT: What crest do you create? What does it look like?

MARISHA: A Whitestone crest. From the threshold of the door.

TALIESIN: We break it.

MARISHA: There's a piece of your threshold crest.

(laughing and cheering)

TALIESIN: Don't cast Friends on people. It's not nice.

MATT: You watch as his ears, his pointed ears slowly slink back and his hair stands up all across the back of his head, his beard almost bristles out into spines as the hat goes (poink) and pops off and hits the ground. He snatches it up. Grabs the piece.

TALIESIN: That's your threshold crest. Piece of a threshold crest.

MATT: “Thank you.”

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: “Well, it appears that our deal has been kept.”

(laughing and cheering)

MATT: He snaps his fingers and you feel like this sudden, this almost unnoticeable pressure at the base of your neck that you had felt since you made the deal release and absolve, on both of you. “All right, so. Well, at least I got the hat out of it. So. The Shademirk, then? Come, follow me, grab your things.” (laughs)

MARISHA: Let's go.

TALIESIN: I cannot wait.

MATT: “Now.” He vanishes. And Grog, you feel a little tug on your finger to pull you forward.

TRAVIS: I fart.

(laughter)

MATT: “I had that coming. We now have even more of a reason to make haste. This is a very small room, and I've been following behind him for quite some time. Let's go. Now, quickly.” And you see Grog being pulled forward by the finger, and you guys get the feeling that he's leading you out of the city, invisible, by Grog's finger.

TRAVIS: We're going this way. Follow me, chaps!

MARISHA: Follow the finger.

SAM: Are the guards following?

MATT: The two guards are following, yes.

LAURA: Woo, that was really fun.

MARISHA: My hair is messed up.

SAM: Good sesh.

LAURA: Good. That was really…

LIAM: Thanks, Grog.

(laughter)

LIAM: I feel loose as a goose. Let's go see this bog.

MARISHA: And I transform into a goose and come out as a goose.

MATT: “You– (frustrated noise) Never mind.” The guards follow at a very healthy distance now, both whispering to each other as they watch you walk.

LAURA: I think we made a really good impression on this city coming back.

TRAVIS: I'm going to kill you later.

MATT: You guys are led back through the main portion of Syngorn, towards the front gates where the watchers reside. The doors are opened for you, and you are escorted out the front gate, where the guards very happily leave you to be. And both turn around at each other and go, (heavy sigh) and they walk back inside the confines of the outer Syngorean wall. You guys are now back out in the wilds of Syngorn, the finger tugs lead you out past the front of the city, through the marshlike mandrake fields that you initially traversed when you made your way to Syngorn, and then find your way back into the Ever-Shifting Grasses, heading duskward, towards where it seems the dusk sun will set.

LAURA: Duskward.

TALIESIN: Duskward.

MARISHA: Always duskward.

SAM: I hate that direction.

MATT: There's also nightward, seaward, or tangleward. Which would you prefer?

SAM: Are those different directions?

MATT: Yes, those are different directions.

LAURA: Tangleward? Did you say tangleward?

MATT: Tangleward. It was mentioned before, yeah.

LAURA: Oh. I just thought of the Disney movie and I think I spaced out there.

MATT: I'm pretty sure that the people in the Feywild haven't seen that. Not yet. They're waiting for it to come out on Blu-Ray. All right. So you make your way towards where the grasses get heavy again, and you see Garmelie (foosh) once again take visible form again and be like, “Ah, sorry, that concentration for a while really gets to you, I'm so glad to be out of that stuffy place. So! Shall we?” Rights his hat. And even in righting it, it's a little crooked to one side and he begins marching duskward.

LAURA: Onward to the theater!

MATT: “No! No theater! We are avoiding the theater! No.”

TRAVIS: Garmelie, how far of a journey is it to this bog?

MATT: “Say about four times since we met?”

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: That doesn't mean anything to me.

LAURA: Four times since we met.

LIAM: I'm just curious, why are you so worried about the theater? I love the theater.

MATT: “I have my reasons.” And he continues walking forward.

LIAM: Thanks, great. Good talk.

LAURA: It's been 14 hours since we've met.

SAM: Can we travel any faster than that? Can we mist, can we tree, can we…?

LAURA: Wait a minute, you could– if you know a tree is– that would be pretty stupid, to just pop out of the cancerous tree, but if we know a tree is there, couldn't you potentially just fucking do it?

LIAM: You've had a lot of good ideas. That's not one of them. That's a bad idea.

MARISHA: She's not wrong.

LAURA: Wait! Keyleth, what if you just open up the cancerous tree, we reach through, we grab the fucking bow, and then we're out.

MARISHA: Well, you're not entirely wrong, I don't know if I can Teleport via Plants because generally that takes knowing the plant. However, I do have Tree Stride, which means we can– nope, never mind, I can only do that on myself.

MATT: Wah-wah.

TALIESIN: We are not sending Keyleth the goose into a bog to retrieve a bow from an angry cancerous tree.

MARISHA: But I'm loosey! I'm a loosey goose.

MATT: That would look amazing on an epitaph, I'm just saying.

MARISHA: We can mist there.

SAM: Would that save time, I don't remember how fast we go.

MARISHA: I might have to take a hot nap.

TRAVIS: A hot nap?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Didn't you guys just take a hot nap?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah. The answer is yes. I can do all those things.

TALIESIN: Well, let's travel for a bit and then we'll take a proper break.

MARISHA: If we can get to the edge of the bog, then we'll take a sleep.

LAURA: Wait, I think the edge of the bog is kind of far, though.

TALIESIN: We'll start our journey, and the next leg of our journey.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's get going.

MARISHA: We'll go until we're tired.

MATT: “I like the sound of that.”

LAURA: Oh. (belches)

(laughing and cheering)

MATT: “Most impressive for a lady.”

LAURA: Thank you. That's a baroness burp.

MARISHA: Robert Durst shit.

MATT: As you guys push on further northward at the behest of Garmelie, you push for another two hours or so through the Ever-Shifting Grasses, and as you get further and further north, the color of the grass seems to go from that deep verdant green to almost a maroon purplish color.

LAURA: I pop Trinket out of the necklace.

MATT: He attacks some of the grass and chews it up.

LAURA: Yeah, get it!

MARISHA: Don't touch the grass, it'll get angry at you! It'll yell at you for a week!

TRAVIS: I don't think that applies here.

LAURA: It's okay, darling. It's okay. Keyleth.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: Do not yell at my bear.

MARISHA: I was just trying to protect him.

LIAM: I give him some grass.

MARISHA: Don't!

SAM: It's fine.

TALIESIN: It's fine.

MATT: And just keeps going forward through the grass fields.

MARISHA: Does the grass seem angry?

MATT: No, it just seems to be changing color.

MARISHA: Suck it, grass!

MATT: As you say that, the grass goes from a purplish color to a deep, deep red around you.

SAM: Oh god.

MARISHA: Because you… suck out the joy of all of us living around you, and you're so amazing.

TRAVIS: That makes it even worse.

SAM: Not a compliment.

TRAVIS: You're still going in the same direction.

MARISHA: I mean, you suck out bad–

LIAM: I grab Keyleth's hand. Let's take a walk.

MATT: All of you, as you're walking, the actual grasses around you are getting more and more dense and are catching on your feet and you're finding that your progression is getting slower and slower.

LAURA: Wait, no. I have Landstride, which means I don't slow against any land.

MATT: Yeah, so you're fine, you just coast ahead. The rest of the party, it's like they're going through waist-high thickets. The grass looks gentle, but as soon as it hits your body, it rakes across it almost like very fine serrated plants, and it's catching on your clothing and pulling you back. It's almost like since those statements were made…

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I have a hooded lantern. I could set this whole fucking thing ablaze.

ALL: No!

MATT: The red goes to a deep cinder-like red.

SAM: Are we going to have roll initiative on grass?

LAURA: No, wait.

TALIESIN: Does no one– I'm going to take a moment.

MARISHA: I feel like the grass feels our emotions.

SAM: Your emotions. Because you yelled at it.

TALIESIN: Lovely field, I apologize for the rudeness of my compatriots. We will be gentle trouncing through you. We will make as little mark as we can and enjoy the splendor of your ever-changing colors. You are majestic, you are windswept– I'm flirting with grass– you are everything I could hope for in a beautiful view.

SAM: I sing a song.

MATT: What do you sing?

(cheering)

SAM: (singing) Keep growing. Keep flowing, knowing you can always count on me.

TRAVIS, LAURA, and SAM: (singing) For sure.

SAM: (singing) That's what Scanlan's for.

(cheering)

MATT: Percy, I want you to make a persuasion check against the grass? Adding the d10 inspiration die.

TALIESIN: Oh, d10 inspiration. Come on.

MARISHA: I do an interpretive dance.

SAM: Come on, persuade that plant.

TALIESIN: That was leaning.

SAM: That was a leaner.

TALIESIN: That jumped, but that's still fine, okay, it's. Persuasion check? Oh yeah, that's not bad. 24.

MATT: What was it?

TALIESIN: Eight plus six plus seven. (counting) 21.

SAM: It's more than that.

MATT: Between the interpretive dance of Keyleth amongst the tattered angry grasses, the beautiful vocal stylings of Scanlan Shorthalt, and Percy speaking out a wondrous poem towards the Ever-Shifting Grasses, you watch as the deep bright red subsides into the relaxed purple, and eventually goes back to a dull green, and you find your traveling no longer impeded as it once was.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Good job!

LAURA: Good job!

MATT: You successfully parlayed with a field.

TRAVIS: First doors, then grass.

LIAM: Don't talk shit to grass!

SAM: How do you want to mow this?

(laughter)

MATT: So. About another half an hour of travel before in the distance ahead of you can see the dark edge of what looks to be another forest ahead of you, wide and almost end-to-end, you see it. A lot of these wooded areas almost meet the horizon, it's like you're stepping into just an endless wall of trees. As you begin to approach closer to the edge, Garmelie looks up and says, “All right. So we have choices now. We have the Moonbrush before us, or we have the Green Sea, which is far seaward of here. I would recommend the Moonbrush.”

SAM: Then we should go the other way. Because we don't trust a fucking thing you say.

MATT: “Very well.”

LAURA: Wait.

TALIESIN: No, the High Warden did say–

MARISHA: – to avoid the Green Sea.

LAURA: Why do you recommend the Moonbrush?

MATT: “Because it's the only real route to get to the Gilded Run.”

LAURA: What is the Gilded Run?

MATT: “The Gilded Run are the rivers that surround it.”

LAURA: Right, those.

MATT: “Yes. You're looking for the Shademirk. You have to get through the Gilded Run to get the Shademirk. You have to go through the Moonbrush to get to the Gilded Run.”

LIAM: Where's the theater?

MATT: “No theater!”

TRAVIS: Right, so we're going through the brushy moon?

MATT: “Yes! Come, come.”

LAURA: Yeah? Are you okay with that, Scanlan?

SAM: I'll allow it.

MARISHA: How long have we been awake?

MATT: You are… you've been awake for about 12 hours now, I'd say.

MARISHA: If we want to mist there, then we have to sleep. But we'll press on for a few more hours.

MATT: Certainly. About another 40 minutes of foot travel before you begin to hit the edge of the Moonbrush Forest. As you approach, Garmelie says, “All right, so things you should know about the Moonbrush. One: it is home to a number of denizens.” And as you look overhead, you can see it's a thick fog that permeates the entirety of this forest. You can see the outline of every tree trunk towards the outer rim of this entire brush. The canopy of the trees themselves are like long weeping willows that sag and give this very ominous feeling to the entire forest. You can see small mountain spires breaking through portions of the tree line in the distance occasionally, miles between each other, sometimes a cluster far closer together. He says, “There is a clan of sorts that lives amongst the forest, we'll try our best to avoid. They are natural hunters and they are of the lycan persuasion.”

SAM and TALIESIN: Oh.

MATT: “So, best that we avoid interaction. They are well-read, they have a society; we should touch none of it.”

MARISHA: Question. You mentioned we are going into the Moonbrush with lycan hunters?

MATT: “Yes. It's a necessity.”

MARISHA: Yeah, no, it sounds like it. Yeah.

MATT: “Yes. But they do have natural enemies. There is a faction of pixies that live within, known as the Wishers, and they are forever locked in a struggle. So avoid both, do not get involved at all, and we'll be fine.”

LAURA: Do the lycan tend to populate trees, or if we stay up high can we maybe avoid them?

MATT: “Actually, they travel mostly in the trees. That's the easiest way for them to hunt, is unseen.”

LAURA: Well, there you go.

MATT: “They are ruled by a singular lycan lord, who goes by the name of Ukurat.”

MARISHA: What?

SAM: Ulurat?

MATT: “Ukurat.”

MARISHA: Ukurat.

LAURA: Ukurat or Udurat?

MATT: “Ukurat.”

LAURA and LIAM: Ukurat.

MATT: “U-K-U-R-A-T.”

TRAVIS: Bob.

MATT: “He is to also be avoided.”

TALIESIN: Is that an elven name? Is that an elven word?

MATT: “It was, once.”

LAURA: Wait, he used to be elven? He used to be elven.

MATT: “They all used to be many things. He happened to be elven at one time, yes? So. Anyway. We'll avoid them, and avoid the Wishers, and also those things, the little plants that you saw before?”

LAURA: Mandrakes?

MATT: “Mandrakes? Also everywhere. Avoid them.”

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: “And we'll just avoid the other things I mentioned, so. Shall we?” And he begins to step and march up to the edge of the Moonbrush.

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: It's fine. We've killed dragons, we'll be fine.

TRAVIS: I'm so stoked right now.

MARISHA: Did we– okay, yeah. Sure. Yeah.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way into the dark Moonbrush itself and as you walk into the forest, immediately you can hear the swell of distant crickets, thousands upon thousands, sourceless, fill the air around you.

SAM: Audience, please.

(cricket noises, laughter)

MATT: That works, I was going to look for cricket sounds here. That's also totally doable.

MARISHA: Someone's got a really good one.

MATT: As you walk in, the actual dusk light that has permeated the Feywild begins to give way to the first signs of night. You can look up through the different breaks in the tree line, you can see stars for the first time. And you can see what looks to be a very dull white glow of moonlight hitting some of the trees and breaking through some of the treetops themselves. The underbrush itself is very soft and spongy, with a lot of leaves that have fallen and given this soft setup. As you guys push forward for another half-hour or so, you in particular, Vex'ahlia, come upon what looks to be a series of stones, what looks to be a series of small structures, almost. Not like buildings per se, but intently placed obelisks of raw, rough stone. And as you come across and look on that side, you can see what looks to be the base of one of the mountain spires that sticks out, a large cave.

LAURA: Do I see any kind of markings on the obelisks?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Oh. Get out of here!

MATT: What'd you get?

LAURA: Natural one.

MATT: Natural one.

LAURA: I know!

MATT: They just look rough and old. They've been placed there. It's old magic.

LIAM: God, you're so bad at D&D!

LAURA: I suck!

MATT: But you do see around the ground right out in front of this cave what appears to be hundreds and hundreds of small objects, piles, what looks like fruits and flowers and bones and stone carvings, all sorts of things placed in front of this cave.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check on one of the bones to see if I can identify where it came from?

MATT: Okay. So you head out and take one of the bones and look at it. Go ahead and make a nature check.

MARISHA: Yeah, the closest bone, I don't want to, ooh. Yeah.

TALIESIN: That ain't nothing to sneeze at.

MARISHA: No, it's not. 28.

MATT: 28. This bone belongs to a larger bird, like a great eagle, you can't quite specifically make out what it is, but it's been carved with small letters into it of a language you can't understand. It looks like it's some sort of a ritual item that's been placed there in the ground. But as you pick up and make this moment noticed–

LIAM: I'm going stealth just because.

MATT: You all hear a giant, echoing roar coming from the cave.

LIAM: Was I fast enough?

MATT: (roars) What'd you roll?

LIAM: 30.

MATT: 30. Okay, yeah. You just (bip) out; you are gone. The rest of you are right at the outside of this small clearing where all of these small objects have been placed, you hear this rumbling loud roar come tearing through.

MARISHA: I step back with the bone.

MATT: Okay. What are the rest of you guys doing?

LAURA: I pull the broom out from behind my back.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I lean the bone over to Vex'ahlia and be like, is this Draconic?

LAURA: Is it Draconic?

MATT: It is not Draconic.

MARISHA: God fucking damn it.

LAURA: Is it anything that I recognize, though?

MATT: What languages do you know?

LAURA: Elvish, Abyssal, Undercommon.

MATT: No, none of those.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: However, at this time the trees behind you two, because the rest of you guys were staying back–

LAURA: Who's you two?

MATT: Vex and Keyleth. The trees (fwoosh) shift and close off the exterior. As you turn towards the entrance of the cavern, you can see emerging from the front a giant– it's hard to really tell the first moment that it appears, but you see what looks to be a gargantuan dire bear-like entity made of crackling blue ghostly energy, shimmering, translucent, not actually a physical form, but massive in size. (stomping noises, roar)

MARISHA: Wait, did we get cut off? Did Vex and I get cut off from everybody else?

MATT: Yep. From everybody else.

LAURA: Shit! I grab Keyleth's wrist and I fly into the air.

MARISHA: I hold on for dear fucking life.

MATT: As you grab her wrist as you fly up, the trees, swoosh, close off and you go slamming into the tree boughs (crashing sound). You lose the broom for a second. Go ahead and hold your grip. Go ahead and make a strength check.

LAURA: A strength check!

SAM: We can't even see them, Matt?

MATT: You guys can't see them and they just closed off in the trees.

LAURA: Come on! Is that a saving throw or just a check?

MATT: Just a check.

LAURA: Five.

MATT: Five? You lose your grip on the broom, and both Vex and Keyleth tumble down about 20 feet, you both suffer seven points of damage as you slam into the center of another pile of what looks like knick-knacks and things that are gathered on the floor. It's at this point that your mind hits that these are probably offerings, these are things that are left as some sort of offering to this bear-like spirit entity that exists in this cave. The bear, which is now, (stomping sounds), coming up towards you on the ground. Looks to Keyleth, (roars).

MARISHA: Hi!

LAURA: I cast Speak With Animals!

MATT: Okay, you cast Speak With Animals.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Like I taught you!

LAURA: (weak growling sounds)

(laughter)

LAURA: And I say, we mean you no harm, great ghost bear! In fact, we brought you an offering and we just accidentally touched the other offering of yours.

LIAM: Où est la bibliothèque?

(laughter)

LAURA: The cheese is old and moldy.

MATT: None of the bear's face moves at all, but an echoing voice, in Common, not animal speak, comes blasting into both of your minds, and those of you guys outside of the trees, trying to find a way through, also hear this echo, “You have entered the domain of Orlan. You destroy and disgrace that which was gifted. What do you offer in response to your travesty?”

LAURA: Yeah, well, I–

SAM: We have a hat. A really good hat.

MARISHA: I've got an old tobacco box I got from lost and found.

LAURA: Ooh, yeah, that's pretty good. I offer him a tea set.

MATT: As you pull the tea set out, the bear claw reaches out and smashes it out of your hand and goes scattered and breaking across one of the stones and goes, “You walk into the realm of the wild, unwatched, unrespecting. The beasts of this land hold no kinship with you. You will prove offering yourself.” And the tongue licks the lips.

MARISHA: What? I turn into a giant scorpion.

MATT: The scorpion takes its form, as it does the bear, (growls).

MARISHA: You want an offering, you can have mine.

MATT: Make a persuasion check on that.

MARISHA: Oh god.

LIAM: By the way, am I hidden in or outside?

MATT: You're outside.

MARISHA: 21.

LAURA: Good job, Keyleth!

MARISHA: Thank you!

MATT: “I sense you have kinship with beasts. You may pass, though I will not forgive this infraction. You.”

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: “You shall be the prize.”

LAURA: Oh, fuck.

MATT: The giant bear is looming over you now, and its size is so immense, probably 15 or 20 feet to the top of its shoulders.

LAURA: Trinket! I call Trinket.

MATT: You call Trinket?

LAURA: I call Trinket.

MATT: Leaps out of your necklace and lands right beside you and just roars, (roars) up to the spirit. The spirit pulls back, (roars), roars back. And Trinket is so tiny by comparison and is up to the elbow, but Trinket lashes out at the giant bear, just leaps up towards it, pushes into it and starts tearing at its throat. The giant bear takes Trinket with one claw and slams him into the ground. Trinket rolls and gets back up, (growls), you can see a little bit of blood at the corner of its mouth, and just lunges again, this time jumping up onto the bear's back and clawing up onto its, onto the top of its torso. The bear (growls).

LAURA: He's pretty cool.

MATT: The bear head looks up at Trinket now gnawing onto its hide, (gnawing sounds), seemingly to no real effect, and the bear reaches up and grabs Trinket and plucks him off the side and sets him down next to you. The bear now begins to speak in the language of bears, which only you can understand at this moment, says, “You walk with this one. Is she your charge?” And Trinket voices back, you hear the (bear noises) up to the bear, as you hear coming out, “She is everything. Her life is mine. You take her, you take me, or we walk on and remember you as a kind soul.” The giant bear looks down, “Very well. If you are at her side, I take your charge, as well.” And the spirit bear steps forward, passing through you, and passing through Trinket's form, and what feels like this rush of warm air. And then disperses into a series of sparkles. You watch the energy slowly drift down and fade into the ground around you, and everything gets quiet. The trees slowly creak back and open the perimeter of this forest around you, leaving you alone. And Trinket comes up and licks your face.

LAURA: Oh!

(cheering)

MATT: As he's looking at you, you look down and you can see the necklace that you hold is actually shimmering with a blue light that passed through you, and it slowly fades to its dark normal form.

SAM: You're part bear now!

MATT: So. That's your new item card for Raven's Slumber.

(cheering)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What's it do?

LAURA: I don't know.

MATT: So. I've got to finish this quickly because we've got to get to the Q and A, but as of this point in time, and I'll give you an ability card, but Trinket now benefits from your Hunter's Mark.

(cheering)

MATT: And has an ability called Primal Fury you can use once per short rest that I'll get to next episode. As you all gather around this moment of silence, this quiet tension that has now dispersed, you see Trinket lift up Vex from the base of her cloak and put her back on her feet, nuzzles the side of her, and you can see the trees overhead open up a little wider than they were before, leaving some moonlight to hit the two of them. And that's where we'll go ahead and leave this session this week.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you, guys!

(cheering)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Is it Thursday yet?

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you. (laughs) Thank you guys so much for joining us here live, this has been an awesome and incredible first experience for all of us. Thank you so much for tuning in and watching with us this week. We're looking forward to the GenCon show in a few weeks, so some of you guys over on that side of the US can hopefully come and see us here as well, and join in this fantastic energy that tonight was just filled with. So hopefully we'll do more of these as time progresses.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Loot Crate!

LAURA: Thank you, Loot Crate!

MATT: Thank you Loot Crate for supporting us and being so awesome, being a fantastic sponsor, and yeah, I guess, is it Thursday yet? We'll see you guys in a couple weeks. 

MATT: Welcome, everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. We are back after a week hiatus in which we were at San Diego Comic-Con!

(cheering)

MATT: We are recovering, some more than others, from Comic-Con. But we had a great time. Fantastic turnout. It was great to meet all those wonderful Critters that got out there, you guys were awesome. The panels were sufficiently ridiculous. And yeah, it was a good time had by all. If you weren't there, I know Geek and Sundry put up the panels, the videos from the panels up on the website, geekandsundry.com, so you can check them out there. Speaking of cool events, we're actually going to be at GenCon next week.

SAM: What?

MATT: I know, it's crazy! I am at a series of panels all throughout the weekend, many of them voiceover-related.

LAURA: Because you're special.

MATT: Because my manager got to them first.

(laughter)

MATT: We're going to have signings I believe on Friday, or is it Friday or Saturday?

LAURA: Saturday.

MATT: Saturday, we'll have signings–

MARISHA: In which we have a new poster.

LAURA: It is exclusive to GenCon, the same way we did our exclusive for New York Comic-Con poster last year.

MARISHA: Also designed by Joma, aka @ForgingMeanings on Twitter. So yeah, it's our next iteration of our box art poster.

TRAVIS: Whoa! It is sexy!

MARISHA: The advanced edition, y'all.

MATT: Yeah. I will say that the last poster was based heavily on the Underdark arc and the coming battle with K'Varn. This one has to do with a later arc in the story. So there's that coming up, we're excited about that, and then we have our Critical Role live show that Saturday at 8pm Eastern Time.

SAM: Tickets are still available online, post the link right now in the chat, someone, please.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's going to be some insane audience.

MATT: We'd love to see you guys. Partially because we don't get out to the middle eastern side of the US as often as we'd like, and this is our first time at GenCon, which has been my gaming mecca for so long. Should be a fun way to roll it in. So come check in the next chapter that'll continue after tonight's episode, at GenCon, and hope to see you there. We have our sponsor tonight for this episode of Critical Role, returning favorite in Backblaze, who previously popped in to say hello. Sam, if you want to say a few words.

SAM: Backblaze is back, everybody. I've already composed a song about it. It goes like this: (singing) Everybody, yeah. Backup your data, yeah. Upload your local files to an encrypted cloud-based backup storage system, yeah. Backblaze back, all right! (speaking) That was good!

MATT: That was a thing that happened.

SAM: Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs, PCs, for just $5 a month. You can back up your fanart there, your fanfiction, the dirty stuff, photos, videos, drawings, documents, it's everything. I actually use this service. My stuff is continually uploading to the cloud and I always know it's there for when my hard drive crashes, they'll send you a new one in the mail–

TRAVIS: They'll mail you one?

SAM: They can mail you one. It's all kinds of crazy options.

LIAM: Think of the gigs of erotica that could just exist out there.

SAM: And Critters get a fully-featured 15-day free trial at backblaze.com/criticalrole. So go check it out, keep that song in the back of your mind when you do.

(laughter)

SAM: And they also made a little commercial for us.

LAURA: Oh yeah, I just love them so much.

MARISHA: I know, it's so great.

MATT: Well cool, thank you very much, Sam.

SAM: Do you want to hear the song again?

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Can we please? I'll give you some of my beef and broccoli.

LAURA: It smells really good.

MATT: Next item: for anyone who wants any of the information about our GenCon panels events and signings and such, you can go to geekandsundry.com/CRLiveGenCon16.

LAURA: That's long. It should be in the chat room.

MATT: Should be in the chat room, check it out, definitely go there. And tonight is the last night for you guys to pre-order the Critter-designed T-shirt, the Chroma Conclave shirt that you guys voted for that won our design contest.

SAM: Twice. It won it twice.

LAURA: It's beautiful.

MATT: So if you're interested in grabbing that, tonight's your last night, and you should just do it now. Soon. Do we have anything else we wish to announce, anything else creeping up?

LAURA: Travis and I are seeing Hamilton this weekend. What?

TRAVIS: It is an announcement. We're seeing Hamilton on Saturday.

LIAM: Is there any other shitty bragging anyone else would like to do?

TRAVIS: Javier Muńoz and I are going to be best friends, and then I'm going to go to dinner with George Washington. I'm going to shave his head. It's going to be awesome.

MATT: You have this all planned out.

LAURA: Yeah, we really do. He's written some fanfiction about it. You just wait.

MATT: Which you can save on your Backblaze account.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's there!

MATT: Indeed. All right then, that being the case, let us dive into the insanity of the Feywild in tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: Welcome back, everybody. So. Getting us into the story for this evening, the backstory of the current episode. Vox Machina, in attempting to find ways to topple and destroy the Chroma Conclave, have found their way around the world seeking items called the Vestiges of Divergence, artifacts of great power that should aid them in their attempt to take down Thordak the Cinder King, the red dragon who now sits lording over the central town of Emon at the center of Tal'Dorei. Their recent journey has brought them into the Feywild, a pseudo-parallel plane of fey magic, chaos, and all sorts of goodness in between. They've wandered through, met an old friend in Nala, the nymph of the lake. Discovered a fantastically artistically talented satyr by the name of Garmelie, and had a trip to the city of Syngorn, the elven city from Tal'Dorei which had phased into this realm for safety when the dragons of the Conclave attacked. After a fateful re-meeting with the parents of Vex and Vax, discussions were had, hats were attempted to be stolen by the leader of the city and successfully done so. The other half of agreements were pseudo-achieved.

TALIESIN: Read your contract.

MATT: And they made their way northward through the ever-shifting grasses to the outskirts of the Moonbrush, a heavy, heavy, forested wood that will lead them to their destination after that, which is the Gilded Run, a series of rivers that wrap around their final destination, the Shademirk Bog, where apparently this Vestige exists. So. Diving in where we were. The last time, you guys had managed to wander a few hours into the southern portion of the forest of the Moonbrush. Coming through, you realize that, as opposed to the rest of the Feywild you've encountered so far, which exists in a perpetual dusk, there is an actual starry sky and moonlight poking through of a full moon at portions of the canopy of this forest. Cruising ever forward, you stumbled upon what looked like some sort of a cave or cavern with a series of small stone and wooden trinkets and gifts that were left outside, as well as carved bones and rotting fruits, and you came to realize that these were probably left for the spiritual entity that lived and existed within this cavern. Upon some of these gifts being disturbed, the bear attacked, and Vex'ahlia summoned forth Trinket, her faithful companion bear. A battle took place, putting Trinket in a difficult position, but upon a brief discussion with this spirit bear, had proven himself a worthy entity, and was bestowed a boon, further solidifying the bond between Vex'ahlia and her faithful companion, Trinket. And that was where we left off.

SAM: Didn't you just get some card or something right at the end of–

LAURA: Yeah, I did.

SAM: Did we know what it was?

LAURA: Yeah, I did.

TALIESIN: It was a free $50 coupon for Lyft.

LAURA: What I'm really excited about is that card was at the live show, and it is not in my stuff right now, but I did.

MATT: She reaches for the necklace around her neck, which is suddenly not there.

LAURA: No! I do, however, still have my title.

TRAVIS: You guys are still by yourselves, right? You two?

MARISHA: Are Vex and I still separated?

MATT: No, the trees have relaxed, the canopy has reopened above the small clearing, and the rest of the party, you can now see Vex on her back on the ground, Trinket standing over her towards the cavern, and Keyleth pulled back, looking a bit shocked and confused.

MARISHA: And is Oralan still there? Is that his name?

MATT: The bear spirit? The bear spirit, upon passing through Vex and Trinket, then dissipated into a spark of naturalized druidic magic and vanished.

MARISHA: So we're alone?

MATT: You are now alone in the center of that clearing.

SAM: Oh my gods, what just happened?

(laughter)

LAURA: Everything's under control. We're alive.

SAM: I heard growling. Did the bear try to kill you? I mean Trinket.

LAURA: No, yeah, Trinket tried to kill me, but don't worry, everything's fine.

MARISHA: Really glad you learned how to speak with animals.

LAURA: Me too! Keyleth, can you open up the trees so our friends can get in?

MARISHA: Who? Our what? Who?

LAURA: Aren't we blocked off?

MATT: The trees have laxed and reopened.

LAURA: I was busy looking for my card. And I found it. Hi guys, my name is Vex'ahlia. Cool, yes, we're good. Can I search for that tea set that I tried to give him?

SAM: Tea set? What just happened?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Cool. Balls. Off to a good start.

TALIESIN: I'd like to take a look in the cave as well a little bit.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Okay, yeah, it takes you a little bit, about ten minutes or so. Parts of it got scattered and lost amongst the rest of the objects left around, but you manage to reassemble your collection of tea accessories.

LAURA: Yeah, cool, it was a golden cursed tea set.

TRAVIS: Nobody else is concerned about the commotion that happened behind the trees, and we're all just like “Hi.” What happened?

LAURA: There was a big fucking bear. You might actually not want to look in that cave, because it came out of there and it was rather angry when it did.

LIAM: What it? What came out?

LAURA: A guardian spirit of the forest.

TALIESIN: Just observing the entrance to see if there's anything written, any type of language on any of the entrances or otherwise.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: As a druid would I know about guardian animal spirits?

LAURA: Yeah, would we have heard anything about this in our studies?

MATT: In your studies? No. You, make a history check.

MARISHA: That's not my strong suit, man.

MATT: We'll go with nature.

MARISHA: Oh that's better, okay. 23.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: There are no markings that currently are visible around the entrance or exit of the cavern itself. It is carved, however, meaning that this cavern, whether it be natural or not, this entrance has been touched by humanoid hands and has been refined. You, Keyleth, do know that occasionally on the Material Plane there are entities, spiritual energies, that gather based on worshiping specific fey spirits and these creatures over time, these spiritual energies, begin to take the form that their worshipers give them. It takes a long time for this transition to happen, and essentially these guardian spirits, usually guarding some sort of a powerful fane, or a magical core or center, they become protector spirits of that region.

MARISHA: So because people just manifested the god as a bear, it slowly turned into a bear?

MATT: It turned into a bear. And they're not gods per se, but they're powerful entities that guard that element.

MARISHA: Spirit guardians. Okay.

TRAVIS: What's in the cave?

LAURA: What's in the cave, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Nothing now, I don't think.

LAURA: There was a spirit bear in there.

LIAM: It was a bear?

LAURA: It was a big fucking bear, yeah.

MARISHA: It was made out of stars and space stuff.

TRAVIS: Are you sure you haven't been eating mushrooms or something?

LAURA: Trinket popped out and he saved us. Trinket fucking saved us, Scanlan!

SAM: Pics or it didn't happen.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's exactly what I was thinking.

LIAM: I go over to Trinket and I surreptitiously start feeding him biscuits– you don't know– biscuits that I took from my father's house. Good boy, that's a good boy. Good job.

MATT: They're gone in a matter of moments. Licks the side of your face, leaving some saliva and crumbs.

LIAM: I will always give you that shit. Don't forget.

MARISHA: Percy, did you find anything in the cave?

TALIESIN: Nothing of consequence.

TRAVIS: How far in did you go?

TALIESIN: No, that looks dark and there was a giant cosmic bear in there.

MARISHA: Would I know if after the spirit guardian has passed, would he just go back in his cave?

MATT: You don't know that much about the entity. You've never really encountered one before, you've only heard about them.

LAURA: What about Garmelie. Would he know?

MATT: You're welcome to ask him if you want to.

LAURA: Hey, Garmelie. What do you know about this fucking bear?

MATT: He's in the very back, just watching you guys. “I know what you know. It's apparently here and people leave him little presents, and seemed pretty scary from the way you describe him, so–”

TRAVIS: Did you know he was going to be here at this cave?

MATT: “No, I would have avoided this!”

TRAVIS: Somebody insight check that little bastard.

LAURA: Yeah, I'll insight check that little bastard.

MATT: Roll insight.

TRAVIS: I would do it, but eh.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18? He seems like he's telling the truth. He's hard to read in general because he's such a strange individual, but yeah.

LAURA: I feel like he would've told us to avoid it.

MARISHA: And bears are fairly territorial. I don't know, it might be wise to stay out of the cave.

TALIESIN: I think in general it's probably best to respect anything's home on this plane of existence.

TRAVIS: Boring. Scanlan, you want to go in?

SAM: If you do.

LIAM: We're not here to go spelunking. Why are we going to go in this cave?

TRAVIS: Oh my god, we're in the Feywild, we're about to pull a bow out of a tree, and you don't want to see what's in the creepy cave.

LAURA: Maybe we should save our strength for the fucking bow in the tree.

LIAM: Plus, do you know there's a theater here?

MATT: “We're not going to the theater.”

LIAM: I understand, but just so we don't accidentally go there, where is it in relation to this tree? Is it on the way?

MATT: “I couldn't tell you. Certain things move. Shift. Change location.”

SAM: It's a touring production.

LIAM: I don't trust anyone who doesn't like the theater. What exactly is your issue with it?

MATT: “Don't worry about it. Anyway. Shall we?” And he begins marching back.

LAURA: I really don't think we should mess with this thing.

MARISHA: Look, Grog, I touched a flower and the whole realm almost collapsed, okay? I don't know.

TRAVIS: I know, I'm looking at the scandalous one over there that's always trying to get little goodies for himself.

TALIESIN: I'm not feeling this one. I don't know. What can I tell you? I normally like to gamble and I'm not feeling a gamble on this one.

TRAVIS: All right, you went (boop). I'm just saying.

TALIESIN: It's just not pretty enough. It's really not pretty enough. We've already won something here.

TRAVIS: All right, fine. I'm happy.

SAM: I'm one hundred percent behind any decision you made or make, by the way. You say “go,” we go. You say “stay,” we stay.

TRAVIS: What if we run, touch the back of the cave, run back. We don't even have to pick up anything. Just to say we did it.

MARISHA: Last time I touched something, I didn't hear the end of it. And now we're just going to let this happen?

TALIESIN: Well, yes, because we don't care if they die.

TRAVIS: What, all the bad shit already came out of it, what do you say?

SAM: By that logic, mathematically there's no more bad shit in there.

TALIESIN: Is there anybody here of reasonable intelligence who wants to stop this from happening? Just checking.

LIAM: I don't think that we should do anything. It does seem like a bit of a double standard that everybody threw poo at Keyleth for picking a flower.

TALIESIN: (deadpan) Please, whatever you do, don't do it, my god please.

TRAVIS: I know, he's got the raised eyebrows. I'm not sure if we should do it or not.

MATT: I'm just enjoying the conversation. Make your choices.

MARISHA: You do you, man. You do you, guys.

TALIESIN: If you're going to do it, have a light source.

TRAVIS: What, ten or higher we go?

SAM: Ten or higher we go.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

SAM: (laughing) We're so going.

TRAVIS: I put Scanlan on my back, and we run straight into the cave.

TALIESIN: I hand a torch.

TRAVIS: I don't want any torch. I've got darkvision!

MATT: They go darting into the cave, vanishing into the shadows and out of sight. The two of you continue for about 30, 40, 50, 60 feet. Thankfully, both of you have darkvision, so you can see pretty well in this area. You can see what are a number of alcoves that are carved into the sides of the rock here that contain extinguished candles, sometimes clusters of them, that are left in here in some sort of ceremonial way, but have just burned out or not been lit in a long time. It goes straight back; there's no curvature or natural change in the path of this cavern. You get about 100 feet into the foot of this spire-like mountain, one of many that protrude from the center of the Moonbrush, and the chamber widens and comes to an end, a circular pocket at the end, about maybe 40 feet across on each side. The floor of this room is entirely covered in unlit candles, except for in the center there is a raised stone platform that contains a singular skull made of some sort of a bluish or aquamarine crystal.

SAM: That's not what I was expecting.

TRAVIS: Jackpot.

SAM: Jackpot?

TRAVIS: We are the greatest ones in the group. Are the candles standing up or are they laying over?

MATT: They're standing up.

SAM: We can't take the skull.

MATT: It's a large skull, it's like this big, and its elongated snout–

SAM: Oh, it's an animal skull.

MATT: It's a beast-like skull.

TALIESIN: Is it a bear skull?

TRAVIS: We have not said anything to the rest of the group.

TALIESIN: Oh, I thought they were saying this out loud.

SAM: Can I discern what kind of animal skull it is?

MATT: Make a nature check.

TRAVIS: Can I do one, as well?

MATT: Sure. Yeah, you would. Yeah, as a traveling herd member, you would know cleaning creatures and stuff.

SAM: Eight.

MATT: You have no idea what creature this is. It does look bestial in nature.

LIAM: Are you dead yet?

SAM: Still alive. Everything's okay. It's all gold and silver.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's nothing that moves in here.

MARISHA: Keyleth talks to the rest who stayed out. Okay, Percy, do you have an hourglass thing?

TALIESIN: No, but I can keep very good count, though.

MARISHA: We should play that gambling game.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: Okay. I bet– how much gold do I have?

LAURA: How much gold do you have?

MARISHA: Three gold.

LAURA: That's it?

TALIESIN: We keep taking it from her.

MARISHA: That's true. That we have to run in after and save them.

LIAM: I don't want to take that bet.

MARISHA: You're going to take that bet?

LIAM: No, I don't want to take that bet because I agree with you.

TALIESIN: I'll take that bet. I'll take a three-gold bet.

MARISHA: Okay. That they come out safe and sound?

TALIESIN: 200 seconds.

MARISHA: 200 seconds. All right.

MATT: Meanwhile, inside the cave, the two of you now stand at the edge of this room filled with small, wax structures and wicks that are currently cold in the darkness, and the central platform holding the crystalline skull in the center.

TRAVIS: In that circular area, is there anything on the back wall? More candle sconces?

MATT: You can't make out any details. It looks like somewhat rough cavern walls, but not very smoothly carved or anything.

TRAVIS: And the skull is big, like the size of my chest?

MATT: It's probably a little bit smaller than that.

SAM: Made of gems or stone or bone?

MATT: It looks almost like it was carved and hollowed from a singular giant solid piece of opal or aquamarine. Like it's a gemmed skull in the sense that it's made from gem material.

TRAVIS: Does it look like it could have been a bear skull?

MATT: You don't know, mister nature-roll-of-12.

SAM: Oh god.

TRAVIS: Well.

SAM: Listen, Grog. I don't think it's very valuable.

TRAVIS: No, but look at it!

SAM: It's pretty amazing.

TRAVIS: We're in a secret chamber.

SAM: This is cool. But what would we do with it? We can't trade it.

TRAVIS: I bet they worshiped it.

SAM: I bet something still worships it. And that thing could come back and be mad if we take it.

TRAVIS: Are there a crapload of footprints on the ground around us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: It's hard to tell. You've arrived, both paced in your space there, so there are plenty of footprints that you guys have left. It's hard to see if there are any more recent ones are from other creatures.

TRAVIS: Want to take a candle as a souvenir?

SAM: I wouldn't mind getting a closer look at that skull.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Well, let's do that, then.

LIAM: 100 seconds have gone by.

SAM: We can't walk over there without disturbing candles, right?

MATT: Probably not, unless you're ballet-style en pointe.

TRAVIS: I can throw you. Taking it back to the old school. That's a little careless.

SAM: I can grab it. I do have a big hand.

TRAVIS: That's like getting your hand on it right away. It's pushing the button.

SAM: What do we do? Do we just leave and come up with a good story?

TRAVIS: Ooh. Yeah.

SAM: Okay. Here, how about this: let me cut your face.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: When we run out, you'll be bleeding and crying, and it'll be horrible. And we'll just make something up.

TRAVIS: Okay. (laughing) Perfect. Are you ready to go?

SAM: Yeah. Yeah, sure.

TRAVIS: We take off– wait, you've got to cut me. Wait, where are you going to cut me?

SAM: Right above the eyebrow so there's lots of blood, yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right in the middle, like the Bruce Willis cut. Okay.

MATT: Ah, Sir Bruce Willis of Emon. Dangerous life he led in history.

TRAVIS: But not too deep, right? I want to be able to still make the ladies swoon.

SAM: Okay, cool. I'll take out my– not Mythcarver.

TRAVIS: Why not? You were going to cut me with a Vestige?

LIAM: You're going to roll a 20 and decapitate him.

SAM: I take out my other longsword. My Aberration Bane longsword.

MATT: (laughing) Are you an aberration?

SAM: I'll slice him right over one of the eyebrows.

MATT: Okay. You take one point of damage, and the goliath blood doth flow aplenty.

TRAVIS: (grunting) Are you ready? Let's sell this shit. And I put him on my back and we take off running! (yelling) Oh, it's horrible!

SAM: (yelling) There are bears everywhere! Bears! Little bears, big bears!

TRAVIS: We burst out into the sunlight, and I intentionally trip and eat shit. Scanlan goes flying, boom!

SAM: There was a bear right on Grog!

TRAVIS: Oh my god! It was so vicious.

SAM: It was horrible.

LAURA: You didn't fight them at all?

TRAVIS: No, there were bodies everywhere! Children! Women! They were stapled to the ceiling! And then there were just horrible–

MARISHA: So did the bear only have one claw?

MATT: Make a deception check.

LIAM: This guy wants to go to the theater.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: I'll have the rest of you roll an insight check.

MARISHA: This is the lucky one.

LIAM: Oh man, that sounds scary.

LAURA: 23.

MARISHA: 27.

TALIESIN: Nine.

SAM: I was in the mouth of a bear, and Grog cut the thing from asshole to lips to get me out of there. It was crazy!

LAURA: That's disgusting. So there was really nothing there?

MARISHA: I think that means you owe me three gold, Percy.

TALIESIN: (sighing) Oh, bloody hell.

SAM: Did you bet to see whether we would live or die?

TALIESIN: No, not at all.

LAURA: What did you really find in there?

SAM: Some candles.

LAURA: Yeah?

TRAVIS: And a big skull.

SAM: Big skull. A gemmed skull. Not gemmed. A gem-like skull. Not diamonds, not rubies. Opal. Something.

TRAVIS: We reached out to touch it and it cut my face.

LAURA: That sounds terrible. I wish Pike was here; she would really enjoy this story.

SAM: It was a worthless endeavor. We're sorry we went.

LIAM: Hey, how about that Chroma Conclave, eh?

TALIESIN: Wait, so the candles and skulls were there, or they weren't there?

TRAVIS: Yeah, there were a ton of candles and a skull.

SAM: Seems like a place of worship or devotion, and we didn't want to mess with it.

MARISHA: Well a lot of these spirit guardians tend to have worshipers, and a lot of times they'll bring them gifts, so that makes sense. Yeah, I probably should have told you guys that before you went in, sorry.

TRAVIS: There's only one show in a day; we don't want to miss it.

LAURA: I like how all of us sound like we've lost our voice.

MARISHA: Yeah, it sounds like we've all been through hell. Okay.

TRAVIS: Well, since I touched the skull and I cut myself, could you do me a little. (clicks tongue)

LAURA: You want me to lick it?

TRAVIS: No, don't you have a thing?

LAURA: Like healing? Like you want me to use a whole spell on this teensy-ass wuss cut?

TRAVIS: If you care about me.

LAURA: I cast Cure Wounds on his little teeny-weeny cut.

TRAVIS: Oh, that feels so much better.

SAM: Vex, what do you think, is a semi-precious gemstone skull worth going in and getting?

LAURA: I think we should remember this place is– well, it's probably going to disappear after we walk away. These things tend to move, don't they?

LIAM: We should move toward our destination.

LAURA: We need to focus on the bow. And it's really hard to say that, but I really–

TALIESIN: The whole theory of a path is you're supposed to somewhat stay on it, I imagine.

LAURA: So stay on it.

LIAM: No more stops. Unless it's for the theater, we're not stopping again.

SAM: What time is it?

MATT: From what you can tell, it looks like it's in the evening, with the moon up.

SAM: And we've been awake for a while?

MATT: Full journey here since you rested… make an intelligence check.

SAM: Natural 20, except disadvantage because I'm exhausted. 16 plus two.

MATT: Okay. After resting just outside of the Moonbrush, it's probably been three hours since you woke.

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: We're good.

LAURA: Oh, we rested?

MATT: Did you guys push on when you got there?

LIAM: I was wondering the same thing.

MARISHA: I thought we camped on the outskirts.

TALIESIN: Whatever we decide right now is exactly what happened.

MARISHA: Right, so we camped and we got up, right?

TALIESIN: Yes. What? Yes, of course.

TRAVIS: I agree.

MATT: I feel like there would have camping before going straight into the Moonbrush, and I think you may have been pressed for time at the event last time to try and do that.

SAM: All I know is my mansion spell has been ticked off. So I used it at least once in the last 47 hours.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel like we camped out right before we went into the Moonbrush.

TALIESIN: We camped out right before that.

MATT: Right, so it's been a few hours since you regained consciousness. It wouldn't have made a huge difference, per se, but you were still reading the book. You're close now, at this point.

SAM: Yeah, I'm close.

MATT: A handful of hours away from completing it.

LAURA: So I can take off this negative seven hit points that I don't even remember how I got, probably.

MATT: Actually, that you would have gotten from the large bear, so no.

LAURA: You're right.

MATT: Nice try. All right, so as you guys gather here, Garmelie goes, “All right, so duskward is– that way. Who's leading?”

TALIESIN: You are.

MATT: “Oh, I'm not leading. I'm guiding you.”

LAURA: You guide. In the front.

MATT: “I'm guiding you duskward. I've never been inside the Moonbrush! I know of things around it.”

LAURA: How were you planning to guide us through it if you don't even know how to do it?

SAM: He was just going to get us to the outskirts. That was always the plan.

MATT: “I'm getting you to your destination by helping guide you there.”

MARISHA: But if you can't guide us through the Moonbrush–

MATT: “I am guiding you through the Moonbrush, I just think somebody should take the lead.”

MARISHA: But you said you've never been here.

TALIESIN: He wants something big in the front.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm just wondering what his use will be from here on out.

LAURA: How about you and I, we can be in the front.

LIAM: She's Duchess of the Grape Hunt so she's very good to lead.

MATT: “Great, wondrous. That'll work fine.”

LAURA: Duchess of the Grape Hunt, what a wonderful title.

MARISHA: Hang on a second, Garmelie. Huddle real quick. Why don't we send him home? He could die.

TALIESIN: I'm all right with that.

MARISHA: He's not going to be any use from here on out. He's never been here.

SAM: He knows things about the Feywild that we don't know.

LAURA: The only thing I worry about is we made a deal with him.

TALIESIN: He's under contract, which means that there are places and things he might be able to help us with.

LAURA: He shook our hand.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it couldn't hurt.

TALIESIN: It's worth having him.

SAM: Also, if it turns out he's not who he says he is–

MARISHA: Which I'm starting to get a very strong feeling of.

SAM: We'll find out who he really is later.

LIAM: He's a bit of a sneak, too. The only reason we have him is because you spotted him because you're awesome.

TRAVIS: And he wanted a hat, how bad could he honestly be?

LAURA: Right? It looks very good on him.

TALIESIN: I feel like hats are almost a traditional sign of something a little iffy. Present company included, of course.

MARISHA: We got betrayed by Clarota at the 11th hour, so–

LIAM: We're so much cooler now.

SAM: All right, let's just put Vex and Vax.

LAURA: Hold my hand, dear?

MATT: “All right.” He takes your hand. Roll a survival check.

LIAM: He eats her hand.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17, okay. Holding your hand, you guys quietly begin to make your way through the Moonbrush.

LAURA: Eyes out for any things.

MATT: You're in your natural element, also. It's a forest.

SAM: Grog, can I ride on you?

TRAVIS: Girl, you can always ride.

SAM: Yeah, I just need to be reading.

MATT: Much like a kid in the backseat of a car on a cell phone, Scanlan is just reading through the book on the back of Grog.

MARISHA: Station wagon. Facing backwards.

LAURA: You can always ride on Trinket, too, Scanlan.

SAM: No. Grog weirdly smells better than Trinket today.

MATT: About another two hours of travel duskward, and he's keeping a finger pointed in the direction, which is difficult for you because the moon placement in the sky has not changed. The correlation as to what you normally use in the Prime Material Plane to gauge direction has no use here whatsoever. So the best that you can do is try to keep yourself facing forward and using his occasional guidance to steer back on track.

LAURA: I'm going to try to learn from him how he's gauging his surroundings and stuff.

MATT: Make an insight check.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21. He seems to, every single time he checks for the direction, lick his finger and then point. There's nothing more to it than that. He'll take a moment to think and look around, lick his finger, point in a direction.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if I feel a breeze at all, or is he bullshitting?

LIAM: Are they way ahead of us or are they just up ahead?

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: There is no breeze. There is no sound in the forest here. There is no sound of leaves clattering. He's just doing that.

MARISHA: Because it makes him seem smart.

LAURA: What does the licking do?

MATT: “Licking is how I initiate the specialization of my arcane understanding of the flow and ebb of the fey–”

LAURA: You're bullshitting.

MATT: “No! This is a technique. And it's leading us to your destination. Have a little faith. You hired me for a reason.”

LAURA: So much faith in you.

LIAM: Is he taking us to the theater right now?

LAURA: Definitely the theater.

MATT: “Not the theater!” Pressing on, I want you to make another survival check.

LAURA: Natural 20. And I don't even need to roll again.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: As we go, I just want to Druidcraft little green pebbles. No, let's do brighter– red pebbles to start leaving behind Hansel and Gretel style.

TRAVIS: Lead something right to us.

MARISHA: Little pebbles. Tiny pebbles that I can recognize.

MATT: Okay, so you're creating small stones that trail behind you as you go.

MARISHA: Every hundred feet or so.

MATT: As you guys progress forward, you start finding patches where the ground itself gets a little mushier, like either there's a nearby river or the ground itself has retained liquid more than other areas of the forest. You begin to see the faint appearance of familiar green sprouts that come through. These are mandrakes, and you manage to catch them before the rest of the party gets there, you and Garmelie, especially with your sight and knowledge of this area, you manage to guide the party around that whole field of waiting mandrake.

LAURA: What do they do? Do they just scream a lot?

MATT: You don't know. You may find out yet. Progressing forward into the next section, I need you to make another survival check.

LAURA: Oh no. 12. Oh, double-double! That's better! 25.

MATT: 25! Shit, girl. Eventually, you come to what appears to be a river that's cutting through this portion of the Moonbrush. Just on the other side of that river, you hear a faint sound of music.

MARISHA: The theater!

LAURA: (whispering) What is that?

MATT: “What is what? I don't–”

LAURA: The music, do you hear it?

MATT: “No?”

TRAVIS: Hold on, are you saying you don't hear anything right now?

MATT: Actually, right now nobody hears it except for you.

LAURA: What does it sound like?

MATT: It sounds like a soft violin, with a hint of flute, and a drum beat. It's very simple. It's very basic.

LAURA: Does it sound pleasant?

MATT: It does sound pleasant. It sounds folksy and whimsical. It's very, very faint.

LAURA: There must be people further in.

SAM: You hear music?

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Could be dangerous.

SAM: Can I listen?

MATT: The rest of you guys, as you gather up, you begin to hear the sound and so does Garmelie. Garmelie's like, “We really don't need to go in that direction.”

LAURA: Do you know anything about music playing randomly in the woods?

MATT: “Music can be good, it can be bad. Who knows? Dangerous music is very often a thing in places you don't understand. I would not recommend wandering into places of phantom music.”

TRAVIS: We should check it out.

SAM: I want to hear some music.

LAURA: What direction is it coming from?

MATT: You take a few steps. There is still a river, which is about 15 feet across. It's a soggy bank that leads into a lazily running river. So you have to cross that first. It looks to be a little ways duskward and to your right.

TRAVIS: Have to cross the river.

LIAM: We don't need to stick a stick into every beehive we come across.

SAM: But this is the theater.

LIAM: Is it the theater?

TALIESIN: We don't know actually know. It could be anything.

LAURA: It could also be a camp.

TALIESIN: It could be many things.

SAM: Do I recognize the music?

MATT: You don't, actually. It's not a classic ditty. The structures are familiar. You can see where the basis of a lot of bar shanties come from; a similar bouncing beat to it, but nothing that catches you as really familiar.

LAURA: (whispered) Ugh. I want to see what it is that's doing it, though.

TRAVIS: Right, but we got to cross this river to get to it.

LAURA: We have to do it regardless, yes.

MARISHA: How big is the river?

MATT: 15 feet across.

SAM: It's a stream. It's nothing.

TRAVIS: He said it's lazy, right? It's just going along, but I call bullshit 'cause we're in the Feywild.

TALIESIN: You're very clever about that.

LIAM: You said we have to get across, regardless, Garmelie?

MATT: “Well, yes, if we're heading toward your destination, we have to cross.”

MARISHA: We have to get across the river, regardless?

SAM: Can you make us a bridge, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I can control water and part the river for a second.

SAM: Well, that's even better.

LAURA: For a hot second?

MARISHA: For a hot second, yeah, I was trying to stop myself. I cast Control Water and make us a little bubble as we walk.

MATT: Okay. So you watch as the stream begins to separate–

MARISHA: I don't want to Moses this, I want to give us a little bubble that we stealthily walk under the river with the little bubble.

MATT: You guys find your way, walking down onto the bank of the river, your boots sinking into the very soft, soggy bottom of the river. You walk across, make your way to the other side. The river splashes as the bubble is no longer required. You traverse it; no issue. It's a river. The music is a little louder on this side of the bank and is off to the right side.

SAM: Should we send Vax ahead?

LIAM: I don't think it's a good idea but if we're going to check it out you and I should go ahead. Yeah, let's go.

LAURA: Garmelie? Do you want to come with us? Go invisible?

MATT: “Um. Okay?”

LAURA: I will hold your hand, don't worry dear.

MATT: “All right.” So he vanishes from sight. The two of you guys make your stealth checks.

LAURA: Oh, can I cast Pass Without a Trace on us?

MATT: If you want to.

LAURA: I'm going to do that.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: All right, so adding plus ten to your stealth rolls.

LIAM: 39.

LAURA: Whoa. 28.

MATT: All right. The rest of you are staying behind.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you two and Garmelie make your way upwards, pushing past bushes, and the trees here in the Moonbrush, which are getting thicker and thicker the further north you go. You hear the music getting louder and louder, and it's funny. You find yourself tapping the side of your leg to it. It's a nice beat. You begin to hear laughter. Sounds like jovial laughter, like people having a good time. Just a few voices. You hear two different voices going back and forth, laughing.

LIAM: Our mother read us stories about shit like this.

LAURA: Did she?

LIAM: Yes, she did.

LAURA: I don't remember.

LIAM: Fairies. Grumpkins. I don't know. It's probably going to end badly. Do you want to go have a look?

LAURA: I just wanted to see, but if you're worried about it, we don't have to.

SAM: Oi! You lot! I just had a thought.

LIAM: Why start now?

SAM: If there's music, there could be some sort of charm effect.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Would you like me to come with and maybe counter that charm effect?

MARISHA: The bard is just now figuring this out?

LAURA: Get on up here, you stealthy fuck.

SAM: All right, I put down my book and hop off of Grog and go up there.

MARISHA: I sit down with Percy.

LAURA: Add ten to it because of Pass Without a Trace.

SAM: I don't think you cast it on me, did you?

LAURA: I cast it on everybody that's within 30 feet of me.

SAM: Am I there yet? I'm exhausted.

MATT: Yeah, it's at disadvantage.

SAM: Same. What is it?

TALIESIN: Stealth. Plus ten.

SAM: Oh! Hey, that's 18! That's not bad.

LAURA: Would have been eight?! Jesus.

MARISHA: I sit down with Percy and I say: six gold that after 200 seconds, they run out screaming again.

SAM: Can I be doing Countercharm? Can I hum a little tune? Is that how it works? I don't know how it works!

MATT: Well, it's time for you to learn how one of your abilities works here, Sam. For countercharm: as an action, you set up a performance that lasts until the end of your next turn. During that time, you and any friendly creature–

SAM: It lasts six seconds?!

MATT: Hold on. You can keep doing it every round if you want to. It doesn't say there's a limit to it.

SAM: All right. I'll keep humming.

MATT: They have to hear you to be affected by it. It has to be loud enough for them to hear you.

SAM: Sure. I'll hum loudly.

LIAM: You want to break our stealth?

MATT: It's going to happen.

SAM: Shit.

MATT: Yeah, one way or the other. You've got countercharm or keeping stealthed.

LAURA: Aw, fuck.

SAM: We'll stealth, and if it starts to feel icky, then I'll do it.

LAURA: Okay. All right. I basically just want to see what the fuck is laughing. I want to see what it is.

LIAM: If I do not see a mummer's show from this, there will be hell to pay. Now let's go.

MATT: So the three of you and Garmelie, who's invisible at this point in time, you approach what looks to be a clearing ahead of you now. The trees actually disperse a bit. You can see what appears to be a small campfire that's crackling in the center of this clearing. And the music is actually quite loud now. You see figures jaunting around this fire and holding hands and swirling for a second and then separating. Then dancing a little ways around it again.

LAURA: What kind of figures?

MATT: You have to get closer.

LAURA: Fuck! Fuck this. Fuck it. I'm not doing it.

LIAM: I will go closer.

LAURA: No. Don't fucking go closer. I get a really bad feeling. All of a sudden, I get a really bad feeling about this.

LIAM: 39 stealth.

LAURA: I'm behind a tree.

MATT: You're behind a tree. Garmelie is staying with you. What are you doing?

SAM: Can I sing to him through the earring? No, we talked about that before.

MATT: No, the effect has to be within hearing, so either you go up with him or you stay behind.

SAM: I'm going to stay behind.

MATT: Okay. So Vax, you come up to the very edge of the clearing. You vanish. You come to the very edge of the clearing. You see before you where the laughter's coming from. There is an elf, in full Verdant Guard armor of Syngorn, who is skipping and laughing around the fire, dancing alongside what appears to be a bipedal humanoid creature covered in fur with claws, a longer snout. And they are both smiling and holding each other's hands and spinning and twirling each other. And dancing around.

LAURA: They're totally charmed.

MATT: You see the music is actually coming from a floating spectral violin, flute and drum, unmanned by any creature; just slowly drifting around the clearing, around the entities that are dancing. I also need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Ah, there it is!

LAURA: Oh, jeez! Is it a charm effect?

LIAM: Yeah, is it? Because I have advantage if it's a charm effect.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: And I'll use one Luck for the day. First Luck. All right. 17.

MATT: 17. Okay. Looking forward, you find a tapping on the side of your hip as the beat finds you. And you begin to drift out of the shadows into the center of this clearing. You look over and see as the guard extends his hand and takes yours. The beat kicks into you, a smile creeps across your face–

LAURA: I take my broom out and I start flying up and I grab Scanlan's hand and take him on the broom with me.

SAM: Where we going?

LAURA: We're going to fucking get Vax out of there.

SAM: I start singing.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Countercharm. (jazzy saxophone riff)

MATT: The gentle sounds of Careless Whisper keeping any possible invasion of your mind at bay, hopefully. You just hear Garmelie behind you going “No! What are you doing?!” echoing through the trees as you guys dart in towards the center of this camp. You–

LIAM: I'm on, man. I'm lit.

MATT: You are totally on. This is an amazing experience. You feel the color and the music surging through you, and all through this endless surge of energy inside as you begin to now join into this other dancing trio.

LIAM: Fucking werewolf guy look good.

MATT: Yeah. You guys dart into the center of this, hearing the music, hearing the laughter, watching your brother with a Joker-like smile on his face, the sheer joy pulling his expression into one of a very disturbing joy. I need both of you guys to make wisdom saving throws with advantage.

LIAM: Oh dear.

TALIESIN: Advantage versus magic.

SAM: Yeah, I already had advantage.

TALIESIN: Well, there you go.

SAM: 13.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23? All right. You sweep in at this point, and find that Scanlan jumps off the broom.

LAURA: No! Don't jump off the broom!

MATT: You tumble down. Make an athletics check. Acrobatics.

SAM: Save? Check? Ten. Check or save?

MATT: Check.

SAM: Ten.

MATT: Okay. You catch yourself. It wasn't a large fall. You land on your feet down on the ground with a crunch. A number of things crunch and break beneath your feet as you stand up and you look up and see as Vax, this elvish warrior knight, and a straight-up wolfman all lead you into the dance, and the four of you now begin to take each other's hands and laugh and skip around in a circle.

LAURA: I'm going to try to Pokéball Vax into my necklace.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try to do that.

TALIESIN: I'm hearing this cacophony, and I'm slowly getting up with a sigh and moving in the direction of the campsite.

MARISHA: You might have won this bet this time, Percy.

LAURA: Not yet!

TALIESIN: Slow walk. You've got time.

MARISHA: I'm holding onto my six gold.

LAURA: You have to make a wisdom saving throw against me.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: Why'd you roll twice?

LIAM: Because I have advantage against charm.

LAURA: It's not charm! It was just wisdom.

LIAM: Oh, then I rolled shit. It's just a five.

LAURA: Then he goes in the Pokéball!

MATT: You are pulled into the necklace. I'm really going to push to refer to it as a necklace.

LAURA: Sorry, necklace. The Raven's Slumber necklace.

MATT: I'm going to really push to have it be called a necklace. Vax, all of a sudden you're pulled out of this dance, and your head is clouded for a second as you find yourself in a singular darkened stone room. Four walls, a single stone throne in the center of it facing out towards a glass window the size of the other walls. It shows an image of the perspective of the necklace.

LIAM: First conscious person to go in here.

MATT: Second, technically.

MARISHA: Second to Grog.

LIAM: Grog was unconscious.

TRAVIS: No, I wasn't.

SAM: He was very close to death.

LAURA: Can I grab Scanlan?

MATT: You can.

SAM: I'm doing the Russian Bottle Dance from Fiddler on the Roof right now.

MATT: It's fantastic.

LAURA: I want to fly down and get him around the waist and pull him out.

MATT: Make an athletics check. I need you to make an acrobatics check.

SAM: Check?

MATT: Yes, so roll and add your acrobatics with disadvantage.

SAM: 11.

LAURA: Athletics?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh, that's strength, isn't it? Oh, sorry. 17.

MATT: 17. You manage to grab Scanlan, pull him onto the broom with you. The two other dancers immediately reach up and grab him and try to pull him back down into it. At this point, you look into their faces and you can see, while they have smiles on them, their eyes are fearful and desperate, their bodies are emaciated and exhausted. They both look like their physical bodies are on the edge of collapse from nonstop dancing for god knows how long. You glance down at the ground around you, and you can see numerous piles of broken bones and discarded armor. All order of other creatures that have befallen this spot amongst the forest and never left. They're pulling against you. We're making opposed strength checks. Go ahead and roll.

MARISHA: Come on, Vex.

LAURA: Fuck. I'm so weak, you guys.

MATT: So are they right now, though. They're heavily emaciated.

LAURA: Just a regular strength check? It's not a saving throw?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: 11.

MATT: 11. You feel as Scanlan, who was shoving off of you instinctually and both of these bodies grabbing his legs and pulling him down off the broom, he is pulled from your grasp, hits the ground, and the three of them continue their dance, completely nonchalant. Not even paying attention to your presence at this point.

LAURA: I fly away. Minor problem. It was really a very bad idea to go towards the music. However, Scanlan's enchanted, and we should probably save him because it looks like a lot of people have also been enchanted and are stuck there forever. If you're going to come and try to save him, plug your fucking ears, because I have a feeling this music is cursed. And I start shoving shit in my ears.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, can you Druidcraft some cotton?

MARISHA: Sure. You owe me six gold.

TALIESIN: No, we're going to save them. You owe me six gold.

MARISHA: But she's running back out screaming! Three and three, we split the gold three-three. It was a draw.

TALIESIN: Vex, could you go fetch a pail of water?

MARISHA: Wait, hang on. How about this, you guys… I believe, as an elemental, I'm immune to charm effects.

LAURA: Well, then fucking get in there and help him.

SAM: You should do more than believe that. You should probably know that.

LAURA: Maybe be an elemental and shove some shit in your ears.

TRAVIS: If I got into a rage, I can't be charmed.

MARISHA: That's true!

TALIESIN: There's nothing to be done about that. It's a campsite, correct? I'm going to start wandering until at least I have a sense of the size of it.

MARISHA: You're right. I Druidcraft the cotton.

MATT: All right, cool. You guys all make your way back towards the direction of this little opening, this gap in this grove.

LAURA: I'm going to let him out of the Pokéball before we get him out!

SAM: There seems to be some distortion going on. I'm doing that thing with the wolfman where I'm miming a lasso and pulling him closer to me to dance closer.

MATT: Sure, and they're into it. It is unlike a song you've ever heard, and everything else fades away: memory of your friends all drift out of your mind. All that matters is this moment, this dance, these people and the music. Any semblance of the personality of Scanlan that existed before is not there. All you feel is the muscles tensing and relaxing from the ever-present dance. The rest of you slowly begin to approach the outside of this opening.

LIAM: She just dumped me out. It's not my call.

MATT: Are you dumping him out or not?

LAURA: I'm afraid because of the music's still playing. What if you're still charmed? I'm not going to dump him out.

MATT: She keeps him in the necklace.

TALIESIN: Just the basic features of the area.

MATT: Perception check.

TALIESIN: Come on.

LIAM: I'm in the necklace krumping right now.

TALIESIN: That would be ten.

MATT: It's hard to tell at this distance. There's a lot of the tree line at the edge of it that are blocking the shape.

TALIESIN: Vex, what did it look like?

LAURA: What did what look like?

TALIESIN: The area where they are.

LAURA: It was a camp with bones all over the ground and floating music things. Dancing.

TALIESIN: Were there tents?

LAURA: There weren't tents?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Just dirt?

LAURA: Just bones.

TALIESIN: Was there a fire pit?

LAURA: Yes? Was there a fire pit? There was a single fire pit. There was a floating violin and a floating set of drums.

TALIESIN: Single fire pit, lit. Set of drums. Violin.

TRAVIS: Hey, I've got an idea. How about you race in, grab Scanlan, I'll kill the other two–

LAURA: No! Don't! They actually looked really distraught. I think they were under a spell, as well.

TRAVIS: Have you no mercy?

TALIESIN: If we can save one, we can everybody, possibly. I haven't seen it yet. I'm going to try and get a little closer to it, gently.

LAURA: I'm going to nock an arrow. And point it towards the violin and hold it there.

MATT: Okay. Percy, you creep closer. As you get closer, the music gets louder.

LAURA: But you have stuff in your ears.

TALIESIN: I have packed my ears.

MATT: You have, and as you approach, it doesn't seem to have an effect on the volume of the music.

TALIESIN: I'm backing up.

MATT: All right. Make an intelligence check. Add your intelligence modifier.

LAURA: Please roll good.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: You begin to notice the increasing volume despite the blockage in the ear pretty early on and stop your advancement before you get too close.

TALIESIN: I sit. I pull out Bad News and I start to get a good look.

SAM: Oh god, you're going to kill me?!

TALIESIN: No, I'm just going to cripple you. Calm down.

LAURA: I feel like we should aim for the instruments.

TALIESIN: The instruments are noncorporeal, I believe.

LAURA: Are they?

MATT: They're just elevated. You didn't get a good look at them.

TALIESIN: One way to find out. I'm going to take a shot at the violin.

MATT: Roll an attack.

TALIESIN: I haven't done this in so long. 17 to hit.

MATT: 17 to hit. That hits. Roll damage.

LAURA: What did you aim at?

TALIESIN: The violin.

LAURA: Can I aim at one of the other ones?

MATT: Yeah, you want to fire at the same time?

LAURA: Yeah, since he shot, I want to shoot.

MATT: Which one are you shooting at, the drums?

LAURA: What else was there?

MATT: There was the drums, the flute, and the violin.

LAURA: Drums.

MATT: Roll an attack for the drums.

LIAM: The woods are full of Irishmen.

TALIESIN: 12 points of damage.

MARISHA: Oh shit, Flogging Molly's playing the Feywild, yo!

LAURA: I rolled 16.

MATT: 16 hits, so damage?

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: 12. And roll damage.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15, okay. Scanlan, I need you to roll a wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Saving throw? Not at disadvantage? Natural 20.

MATT: You guys with your natural 20s! Okay. Roll it again.

SAM: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Back-to-back?!

LAURA: What the what?!

MATT: That's absurd. You've been storing this shit after a week we've been gone.

MARISHA: I don't think that's happened since we played at home.

LAURA: No, it happened when I was saving him against the Briarwoods. Two natural 20s.

MARISHA: That's right!

LIAM: That was 35 episodes ago.

SAM: Wow!

MATT: All right. You take 24 points of psychic damage, Scanlan. As both of you guys fire, both of the instruments scatter for a second, and there is an echo of psychic energy that resonates throughout the entirety of that grove. The fire shakes and dissipates, almost going out. Scanlan, you can see reach up and grab the sides of his head in pain. The guard and the wolf that were dancing do the same, except they both collapse immediately on the ground. A moment passes, the instruments reform, the music continues, and Scanlan goes right back into the dance.

SAM: I throw my white man's overbite back on.

LAURA: Maybe it's time for Grog to go in.

TALIESIN: No. Round two.

LAURA: Round two, Grog runs in and grabs Scanlan, and we run out. He can't be charmed!

TRAVIS: Before you let me off the chain. There are trees, right? Who's benefitting from this charm?

TALIESIN: The instruments and the campsite.

TRAVIS: There's not somebody in a tree, hiding out?

TALIESIN: I think the campsite just might be a campsite. I want to try and douse the fire.

MARISHA: If you want to rage and go in, I can be there on standby.

TRAVIS: You're going to let me go?

LAURA: I feel like we should let Grog go.

MARISHA: I use Alter Self to shape my fist into a giant rock fist and I deck Grog to throw him into a rage.

MATT: The jaw is momentarily displaced as you pop it back into place.

MARISHA: Grog, go get our bard!

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: You take one damage from the punch impact, and you go into a rage. Running forward at your 50 feet, you make it into the center of the camp. Currently, the music is all around you, but you don't hear it because all you see is red and Scanlan's fucking horrible white man's overbite dancing by himself at the campsite with no allies.

TRAVIS: I don't know if I've killed an elf in quite a while, so I'm going to aim my axe at the throat of the elf that's dancing.

MATT: The elf isn't dancing; both he and the werewolf are on the ground, unmoving.

TRAVIS: They didn't get back up?

MATT: No, they're fucking down.

SAM: It's just me and some instruments now. You have to come get me.

TRAVIS: Sweet, I'm just grabbing Scanlan and running straight through.

MATT: I need you guys to make opposed athletics checks. No, this would be strength.

SAM: Strength or athletics?

MATT: For this one, I initially said athletics; that's fine. They're almost equatable.

SAM: Saving or check?

MATT: Check.

SAM: Ten.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: 25. You grab Scanlan. You begin to make your way out of the camp. It was 40 or 50 feet to get in and grab him.

TALIESIN: Is he starting to make his way out of the camp?

MATT: He's grabbed Scanlan and pulled Scanlan off his feet.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot him in the shoulder with my Retort gun.

MATT: Okay. Roll an attack.

MARISHA: Keep the rage going? Nice.

TALIESIN: Ooh, just barely. 16.

MATT: Total of 16? What's your armor class, Grog?

TRAVIS: 20.

TALIESIN: Taking another shot. Rolling like shit. That's better. 20.

MATT: What's your armor class?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: Roll damage.

TALIESIN: Thank god. It's been so long! Where are all my dice? Just a nick. 16 points of damage.

MATT: You take 16 points of piercing damage, halved, so you take eight. You feel the music begin to creep into your ears as the blood pumping in your skull begins to subside, and then (gunshot) your shoulder gets blown back. You look over and you can see the bullet wound and the blood beginning to pour out of the small piercing wound you've suffered in your shoulder. The red takes over once again.

TRAVIS: Vax!

(laughter)

MATT: Clutching Scanlan at your side, you go running out of the field. Because this is the secondary round now, make one more athletics check versus his athletics check.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Yeah. Scanlan's pushing away as hard as he can against your body, but you have him footballed under your arm and go charging out of the center there. As you pull out of the center of the camp, the flame's reclaimed its general spiraling height. The music keeps playing, and then as you guys rejoin the rest of the party, the music begins to fade as the instruments slowly drift down and lay still.

LAURA: Good, it stopped. We can go back out.

TALIESIN: (cackles) Really?

SAM: Am I okay?

MATT: You're all right now. Your brain comes to you. Your legs are a little sore, and you were already exhausted to begin with.

SAM: I instinctually start freaking Grog. Dry hump dancing.

TRAVIS: Like a little dog on my calf?

LAURA: Okay, so you're all right, Scanlan?

SAM: Oh, what? I was dancing. It was amazing. There were lights.

LAURA: I release my brother. He's out of Raven's Slumber.

LIAM: Did we see a play yet?

LAURA: It was the worst play I've ever seen.

TALIESIN: It's more of an intermission.

LAURA: Garmelie! Why didn't you warn us that could happen?

MATT: Garmelie, who's there by the side, comes out of his invisibility, and says, “I tried! I really tried! But you guys continually insist to go face-first in whatever I warn you about, because you don't trust me, apparently, when you hired me to be your guide!”

LAURA: We trust you, dear.

MATT: “Hopefully you've learned a lesson! God.” (sighs)

SAM: Wow. That was amazing.

TRAVIS: So the fire's out; instruments are gone. Should we loot the campfire?

LAURA: We should not go back out there.

SAM: Can we get those weapons, somehow?

MARISHA: Which weapons?

SAM: The musical weapons.

MARISHA: You want the magical enchanted instruments?

SAM: I guess we can't get them, can we?

LAURA: Best to avoid them.

TALIESIN: It's a trap. It's not actually musical instruments.

SAM: We'll flip a coin, right, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's it. Roll a d20.

SAM: Disadvantage. One.

LAURA: Let's avoid it.

MARISHA: We're good.

MATT: So what are you guys doing?

LAURA: We move towards the dusk.

TRAVIS: We're moving towards the Gilded Run.

MATT: All right. As you guys begin moving away, Garmelie scoots up a little bit and gets a look in the edge, and goes, “Well, you certainly found the happy campsite, so good job.”

TRAVIS: Oh, you told us about that earlier.

MATT: “Yes! Yes, I did.”

MARISHA: Oh, that's the happy campsite.

TALIESIN: Have you not figured that out yet?

MARISHA: I thought he was being metaphorical. I didn't know it was literal.

MATT: (sighs)

TALIESIN: This is quite literally the land of literalism at this point.

TRAVIS: We make people sigh a lot.

MATT: All right. I need you to roll a survival check with advantage, leading the group forward.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. All right. You guys continue pushing duskward. Between you and Garmelie leading the way, the forest gets ever thicker. The trees get even closer together, and you feel that some areas have no more than maybe three or four feet between the tree trunks themselves. The rest is really angry, tangled roots, as well as the high-growing underbrush of the entire forest. Moon still unmoving in the sky.

TRAVIS: Are we trampling anything as we're walking?

MARISHA: Yeah, we're not stepping on mandrakes, right?

MATT: No. In fact, it's her high rolls that are keeping you guys from stepping into any of the local dangerous possibly screaming fauna.

SAM: Matt, did my Countercharm help at all?

MATT: It did.

LAURA: It gave us advantage–

SAM: But did you need it?

LAURA: No, I did, yeah.

SAM: Hey, I did it right!

LIAM: Half-elves have advantage on charm.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: It didn't help?

LAURA: It didn't help.

MATT: With anybody else, though, it would've helped. It actually helped you.

SAM: I still was charmed.

MATT: You still were charmed.

LIAM: Is the footing here precarious? I know she's leading us through, but is it all viney and shitty?

MATT: It's not great. It would slow your pace if you didn't have her leading you through. It's still not the fastest pace in the world, but you're able to keep going at a decent rate.

TRAVIS: Can I jog up to Garmelie and Vex real fast? You said that there were lycans at some point, and you said they move through the trees, right?

MATT: “Yes, from what I've heard.”

TRAVIS: Would that be these trees?

MATT: “Possibly.”

TRAVIS: Right. Have you seen a lycan?

MATT: “I haven't.”

TRAVIS: Great. We should be keeping an eye on the trees.

LAURA: I was trying to.

MATT: All right, make a perception check.

LAURA: 36.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation, you glance up, right into two yellowish eyes that are piercing from just past the leaf line of the canopy above you. As soon as you look up and see them, they immediately disappear in the darkness, and you hear a low growl and some shifting in the leaves above you.

LAURA: I think they're here.

MATT: At this point, you guys begin to hear, surrounding you in the distance, growling, sounds of shifting and movement in the trees just beyond. You hear in the distance one singular (howl) and barks echoing around you in the center of the forest. Shadows begin to dart between the trees, and a quiet moan of wind begins to break what was once silence in this forest. As you guys glance around you in the darkness, many of you having darkvision; even this low moonlight, Percy, you can still make out the shapes that are shifting. You look in your vicinity at what appear to be about six different medium to larger sized man-like humanoid creatures that step out of the trees, revealing themselves, most of which contain a wolf-like appearance, elongated snout, darker gray and brown furs, large pointy ears and gleaming angry eyes, the lips curled back revealing white teeth. You see one large tiger-like man, which sends you immediately into a recoiling moment, though larger than the rakshasa that you've experienced, and not with the signature back hands. They are unclothed, and you see barreling behind you guys, heavy footfalls as you see what looks to be a giant, bipedal bear clutching a greataxe comes (smash) through one of the tree clearings and (roars). They're not attacking. They're not advancing. They've just surrounded you.

SAM: That's not good.

TRAVIS: Well, they're here.

LIAM: I give Scanlan a little boot in the butt forward a couple of steps.

SAM: Hello. We come in peace. We mean you no harm. If we've tread into your territory, we will exit immediately, and we apologize for offending you or your gods.

MATT: Some of the wolf-men creatures look at each other. The tiger individual steps further out of the shadows and appears to have two iron-like bracers on, a longbow strapped across his back, and steps forward to meet you from beyond the tree that he was partially obscured from. “Intruders. Your terrible fate brings you within our domain. For what purpose?”

SAM: We seek passage through this marshland to what lies beyond it. We are searching for–

MARISHA: The Shademirk bog.

SAM: The Shademirk bog.

LAURA: We hope to rid the land of a cancerous tree that has been a blight for a very long time.

MATT: “I know not of this tree.”

SAM: It's a source of great evil that's been corrupting this plane and ours.

MATT: “There are many evils that corrupt this plane, small tasty thing.”

SAM: I'm not tasty.

LAURA: He's not. Many diseases.

TALIESIN: Dozens.

MATT: The tiger looks about at the other werewolves who are now stepping in, and the bear, who's put the greataxe over its back now at this point, begins to step closer in. The tiger, whose eyes are now bent on you, takes another step forward, “So.”

(buzzing)

MATT: The audio on my iPad needs some help, apparently. Time to get new music. Oh, that's an expenditure I don't need.

SAM: A new iPad for no reason?

LAURA: Something else? It's our computer?

CREW: We're going to switch out the one that we usually use.

SAM: This is so exciting.

MATT: Isn't it, though? Especially at that climactic moment, my audio goes down.

CREW: Sorry!

MATT: It's all good.

LAURA: We should probably kill it. I feel bad for everybody listening.

MATT: I'm going to kill the music, then. Okay. Bringing us back in now. Sorry about that.

LAURA: Maybe just make it come out of your iPad.

MATT: It's something. Sure, we'll go with that.

LIAM: Works for us.

LAURA: That's how we did it at home, man!

TALIESIN: This is the best simulation of our old home game that I've had.

MATT: That's enough to give you the feel. The tiger takes that step forward, leans in to you, and goes, “To parley or continue our hunt?” Looks at the other wolves. “Call Ukurat.” And roars out to the air. The other wolves all together begin to howl in unison. (howls) Loudly into the sky. (howls)

LAURA: What's Trinket doing?

MATT: Trinket's backed up with you guys, growling and facing off with the bear-like entity that's keeping eyes on Trinket but is still (growling) up into the air of the forest.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Oh. Ukurat. Isn't that the big ghost bear?

MARISHA: No, that was Oralan. Ukurat's the lycan leader.

MATT: A few moments pass as the howling subsides and they all stare intently, keeping a bestial cage around you in the center of this forest. It's at that point you begin to hear (footfalls) what sounds like a series of heavy footfalls at a speed, and the sound of trees thrashed as various hanging vines and branches are snapped or passed at such a speed. There is a mass of black shadow that comes emerging from the brush, slamming into the side of one of the trees near you with a clattering (crash). You see it pressed up against the side before leaping off, rebounding, landing right beside you guys, separating your group, giving Scanlan, Vex, Trinket, and Garmelie pushed to one side and the rest of you to the other. You now see this giant, feral beast, humanoid in shape once it begins to stand, but larger than anything you've seen before, as the large wolf-man creature stands at full height, about 12, 13 feet tall, its shoulders wider than yours, Grog. A series of various jeweled necklaces adorn its throat, and you can see what appears to be a makeshift leather belt and armored leg piece that sit upon it. Rings glimmer around its fingers, and you can see a series of scars drawn across one side of its cheek that go down to its throat. It looks about at the rest of you, separated, glancing at each side. “So. You seek passage, yes?”

SAM: Yes, that's right.

MATT: “There is a toll to pay. A favor to the Fendir is granted. A favor in kind.”

SAM: A favor to you?

MARISHA: The Fendir, is that what you said?

MATT: “We are the Fendir.”

SAM: Well, we would be happy to help if we can. We are here to do good, anyway. We've already done some. We conquered the devastating campsite of Soradun the Happy, and we're up to doing more tasks like that, if it would help.

MATT: The wolf creature that you expect, at this point, is the Lord Ukurat that you heard mentioned before by both Garmelie and the wolf and beast kin, leans down towards you, making you uncomfortable, as his head is larger than your entire body, Scanlan. The lips curl back, and you can see the glistening white teeth, and drool slowly dripping off the edge of its curled purple-black lips. (sniffs) “We will not eat this day if you agree to do us this favor.”

LAURA: Name it.

MATT: “The pixie Wishers carry a madness, one that pits them against all who wander these woods. They prey upon us Fendir, take our forms to desecrate their twisted garden and decorate their lives. We lose family. We, the Fendir, and I, lord of this brood, ask you to take into this home, find these Wishers, destroy a relic of their people. In particular, a circle of crystal stones they keep. It sits among their homes, tended by their mystic, Iotha. She wields the power to subjugate us all. Do you agree to these terms, or does our hunt continue?”

LAURA: They sound really powerful, these pixies.

SAM: If you are not powerful enough to conquer them, how would we have a chance?

MATT: “If you do not think you have a chance, perhaps you're best suited as our meal for the night.”

LAURA: No, we have a very good chance of defeating them. We are quite powerful. Just wondering why you haven't done it before.

MATT: “We have fallen to their magic. We are not tested and tempered against such trickster cunning creatures. But if you speak like you've passed the campsite unscathed, perhaps you have skills we lack.”

SAM: That is true. We probably do. We made quick work of the camp. It was a proud moment for us, one that will be storied for generations.

MARISHA: This mystic– Iotha, you said– she has the power to subjugate your kind?

MATT: “Yes.”

MARISHA: Does she have the power to create more lycans?

MATT: “She sees our kind to be exterminated.”

SAM: Where can we find this site?

MATT: “Follow the lights.”

SAM: The lights?

MATT: The small, glittering fey lights that you've seen throughout many of the darker forested areas of the Feywild since you arrived, now taking a look, they all slowly, gently drift in a singular direction before touching the ground and dissipating. Even though the wind that blew through with their arrival has faded, they all still drift in a direction as if they're being called a specific way.

LAURA: Cool. Hey, question. Should we help you with this terrible problem you've been facing, do you think there's any way you would want to help us when we try to take out this cancerous tree? It needs to be taken care of. Teamwork?

MATT: “Cancerous tree?”

LAURA: It's really bad. Whole other area for you to dominate. It's quite wonderful.

MARISHA: The Shademirk bog.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: Goddamn it! Wait, it's my favored terrain.

MATT: Doesn't work for every single thing you do. The forest isn't going to help you with your persuasion check, sorry.

LAURA: Natural one.

MATT: The wolf leans forward, and the mouth comes right up to you for a second. The nose almost nudges you, and you instinctually stand back as it (snorts). “This is not part of our parley. We grant you passage and to take what you wish off their pixie corpses. That is the deal. Take it, or we hunt.”

SAM: I think we'll take the deal. Happy to enter into this contract with you. No problem.

MARISHA: We're just stacking contracts.

SAM: Is there a timetable to this? Do we have to do this now? Can we do this on the way out of the Feywild?

MATT: “There is no out until this agreement is completed.”

SAM: Do we have your word that we have completely safe passage? We don't have to worry about any other sort of monsters getting us in our sleep on the way there?

MATT: “They and us rule this brush. Against each other, nothing will take your path away. We can guide you if need be.”

MARISHA: If we take out the pixies, what is the future of your tribe?

MATT: “The brush will be ours. We will no longer be taken, our people left there to wither and waste away to the elements.”

MARISHA: Just a question. Do you guys hunt the pixies? Because I'm getting the sense that this is a weird turf war, and I just want to know the full story before we enter into this contract.

MATT: The bear, who's closer to you, takes a step forward, and you feel the ground shake behind you.

TRAVIS: I match his step.

MATT: Match his step, okay. Grog steps forward. The other of the wolves nearby see you, and they all (snarl) crouch down, snarling in your direction. Lord Ukurat puts his hands out. “Calm, my brethren. We wish to live in peace amongst the woods, away from those who would hunt us, outside and in.”

MARISHA: Why don't you guys just agree? You guys take this half of the forest, and they'll take the other? I can even help you guys build a big wall, if you want, not to get oddly political. Maybe death is not the answer here?

MATT: One of the wolves nearby speaks up, “She speaks like she knows this place.” And you hear some laughter. The wolf's head, which is turned to you, Lord Ukurat turns to you.

MARISHA: They think I'm funny.

SAM: How many total are there?

MATT: There were seven, including the 12-foot-tall one.

SAM: We can probably take them.

MARISHA: I'm not trying to take sides here. Just from a third party looking in. Trying to understand both perspectives, maybe.

MATT: “You have only heard one perspective.”

MARISHA: Exactly!

MATT: “Then go speak with them, if you'd like. Learn what we have learned. Perhaps that will help guide your choice.”

MARISHA: Not a bad idea.

TALIESIN: I find that very reasonable.

LAURA: That is very agreeable.

MATT: “We will be watching.” At this point, Lord Ukurat crouches down, leaps up into the canopy of the forest, and you hear (impacts) as he leaps off in the distance. The other wolves (howl) follow suit and dart off in separate directions, and you hear as the bear backs away, Trinket growls back at him.

LAURA: Be nice to him, Trinket!

MATT: (bear growl) The bear goes, (grunt). Trinket goes (grunt). Broseph bear snarls. You guys are left to the quiet of the forest now.

SAM: We could probably kill them all. I'm just throwing that out there.

TRAVIS: I'm super restless.

LIAM: I don't really want to fight a group of werebeasts, but we have much better chances, if we're going to pick a side, against them with their brute strength, than against fucking pixies. I am charmed at the drop of a hat!

TRAVIS: Have you fought a werewolf before? Have you fought a lycan? Is it just brute strength?

LIAM: Well, they are cursed. They seem very unhappy. They have to sit in rolling chairs at all times.

TALIESIN: We literally have no idea what we're up against in any direction.

LIAM: There are scary fairy stories, though, growing up?

MATT: You've heard about people that transform, but any specifics about their capabilities–

MARISHA: I have a few spells that are good against people who can transform, but we're also in the Feywild, so I don't know.

TALIESIN: Cute and dainty also means scary and dangerous.

LIAM: We really bollocksed up the musical instruments scenario, and I don't feel like the pixies are going to be much better than that.

TALIESIN: I feel like that went rather well.

LAURA: All things considered.

TALIESIN: Took less than three tries to figure that out.

LIAM: Yeah, we ran in for 30 seconds, shit the bed, and then got the hell out. We didn't try to end them. We didn't finish anything.

TRAVIS: It also bears remarking that Garmelie said we're not supposed to side with either, right?

LAURA: Right, Garmelie?

MATT: “It's really up to you guys. I don't know if you have much of a choice right now.”

LIAM: Can't we just thread the needle and play them both?

MARISHA: Until we get out of here. We're talking about exterminating the group of fairies–

TRAVIS: No, we're destroying one of their relics.

TALIESIN: Just have to desecrate a relic.

MARISHA: You don't think they're going to put up a massive fight if we go in and start kicking their relics?

TALIESIN: I feel like we've desecrated relics before.

LAURA: Scanlan is really charming.

SAM: I could probably convince them to destroy it themselves.

TALIESIN: How's that book going?

MARISHA: You genuinely think we can destroy the relics without harming anyone?

LAURA: No, but I'd like to try.

TALIESIN: But I also will admit, I kind of want to see the pixies.

MARISHA: I want to see the pixies, too.

LIAM: You also wanted to hear the music. That didn't go well. We've got a bow to get you.

TRAVIS: Let's just go over there, do a little recon, and then we'll make up our minds.

LIAM: We are idiots.

TALIESIN: Yes, we are.

SAM: I'm more inclined to turn around and fight these lions and tigers and bears, oh my! Because pixies, who knows?

LAURA: Honestly, they didn't seem that bad. I feel terrible killing them for no reason.

MARISHA: Maybe we can talk to the pixies about–

TALIESIN: I think you would look fetching in a new lined winter jacket.

MARISHA: Maybe they can work with us.

SAM: I'm okay with at least going to do some recon.

TRAVIS: Go see the pixies. We send in Garmelie. If he dies, then we make a choice. Do you have a revision to that plan?

MATT: “I would think that would be the last portion of the plan. Everything else goes forward, and then, all else fails, perhaps Garmelie would have a hard time.”

MARISHA: Garmelie. Go, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're our guide. Guide us. We're supposed to go where we're going, so you're supposed to get us there. How do we get there?

LAURA: Follow the lights.

MATT: “You know exactly how to go there. Follow the lights.”

TRAVIS: Wow, you're so brave.

MARISHA: We brought you here.

TALIESIN: Garmelie, I'm so curious as to what happens if you're going to renege on our contract.

LAURA: Would you want to draw some of the pixies if we see them?

MATT: “If they let me.”

LAURA: You can hide behind Grog, and you draw the pixies.

MATT: “I can maybe do that.”

TRAVIS: They're going to be pixies with giant dickbutts everywhere.

MARISHA: Garmelie, is there anything in particular about pixies we desperately need to be aware of?

MATT: “They're tiny. They're frail, mostly mischievous.”

TRAVIS: How tiny?

MATT: He makes a motion with his hands about like that.

LAURA: They're really that small? Are they super strong?

MATT: “No, they're quite the opposite, actually.”

SAM: But there are lots of them, and they're fast and invisible.

MATT: “They are fairly magical entities. Depending on which type of pixie they are, their dispositions can shift dramatically. The Feywild entities that live and exist in certain areas tend to adapt to those areas. There are creatures of all emotional and moral backgrounds and interests. It's hard to say.”

TALIESIN: I'll also say, if we are going to attack the were-creatures, it would be nice to have a little help, maybe.

SAM: Help? From whom?

TALIESIN: From the pixies. If we explain our situation, we can make a decision and either help the were-creatures or–

LAURA: Maybe the pixies can help us take out the cancerous tree and all the things around it.

TRAVIS: Well, let's go get eyes on them, shall we?

MARISHA: Let's go.

MATT: All right, make a survival check. With advantage because you're in a forest.

LAURA: I'm in a forest.

SAM: Oh, just her?

MATT: Just her, yeah.

LAURA: That's better. 22.

MATT: 22. You guys begin to move slowly forward as you ascertain a direction from the occasional small flutter of fey light that drifts at a slight curvature in its descent, making your way in the direction where, supposedly, the nexus of this pixie tribe should exist. We're going to go ahead and take a break. We will see you guys back here in a few minutes to pick up where we left off, wandering towards the pixie home. We'll see you guys in a minute.
Break

[break]
Part II

MATT: Welcome back. As we come into the event, Vox Machina is slowly crawling through the Moonbrush towards wherever these gentle fey lights drift, leading them, hopefully, to some sort of home space or residence of the local Wishers pixie population. You guys, pushing on for about another two and half, three hours, following the lights.

SAM: Reading.

LAURA: How many hours do you have left of reading?

SAM: After two and half more, I have about four and a half.

MATT: So close. You're on the cusp of your week end, too. You guys make your way– hoping that the music now is fixed. We shall see. It's a cable issue, not an iPad issue, it looks like. As you guys push on, you eventually see a cluster of small glowing lights in the distance, Vex. Garmelie immediately goes, “I'm going to hide now,” and he goes invisible.

LAURA: Garmelie, won't they see you?

MATT: “That's possible. Should I just stay back?”

LAURA: You should probably just hold onto Grog. If he runs in, just trail behind him.

MATT: “Okay,” and you feel the little hand grab the back of your belt again, a similar situation. You hear (groans). You guys now see what appears to be a thicket in the center of this portion of the forest. Maybe 20 or so natural-looking homes forming a small glowing community, almost like they were grown out of the ground of the local trees. The bark itself protrudes from the side of a tree and creates a dome-like abode that has carved little windows in it and a glowing interior. It's a very pretty fairy community out there, right in there in the center. All of the fey lights in the forest are slowly drifting in towards the center of this community. At a hundred-foot distance, you can just make out the faintest details.

LAURA: They're teeny, though? It's teeny little houses?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Like doghouse size?

MATT: Each home or abode is about the size of a basketball.

SAM: Are they made out of toadstools?

MATT: It's hard to see from this distance. You can just see the general size of the homes.

MARISHA: This is so cute.

LIAM: And Vex is the only one that can see it.

MATT: She's the furthest ahead, yes.

TRAVIS: I feel like “cute” is the last word we should use for this.

TALIESIN: It will be the last word you ever say.

LAURA: Definitely pixie city is up ahead.

TRAVIS: Should we look for perimeter alarms or traps?

LAURA: Yes, I look for that. Good idea, Grog! Good thinking.

LIAM: I'm going to go stealth, just because.

LAURA: Me, too.

MATT: All right. Make a stealth check, guys.

TRAVIS: All right, Pass Without a Trace?

LAURA: That's not still active anymore?

TRAVIS: That was awful.

SAM: We're doing stealth checks?

MATT: Of those who wish to move forward towards the village.

MARISHA: Oh, all of us? Sure.

TRAVIS: 15.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: What!

LIAM: 25.

SAM: Are we adding plus ten?

LAURA: 27.

SAM: Five.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: And as you guys creep forward, still humming the essence of the tune you guys managed to escape earlier, Scanlan's enjoying the echoes of his countercharm that he so well presented earlier, you shush him as you slowly creep closer to the outskirts of this pixie community. As you get closer– when you envision a city, or a cluster of abodes like this, it's a large section, but for the scale of this it's no more than maybe 25 feet across and there are maybe two dozen homes throughout the entirety of this space. You can see just on the edge, looking inside, what appears to be a circle of about ten slightly glowing quartz-like stones, arranged in a perfect circle in the center of the community, and most of the fey lights are drawn towards it and cluster and rest at the base of the stones before fading away. You can also see, throughout this community, arranged like decorative statues, three stone, human-sized wolf-men type creatures that are locked in place, their claws up like this. Some look like they're fleeing, over a shoulder. They're all locked in a stone position and currently now have draped over them small vines and flowers, and they now rest amongst the community as some sort of a landmark.

LIAM: All right, that is kind of fucked up.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: You can see at this distance now a few moving, slightly brighter points of glowing light fluttering by and going from one little home to another. One over and into the circle flutters back. You guys are still at a good 40, 50 feet from the outside of this clearing.

LAURA: And we can't spot any pixies near us at all?

MATT: Not directly near you, no.

TRAVIS: I hate spiders.

SAM: I don't want to go near this place. We should either talk to them, or run away right now.

TRAVIS: I like the latter of those two.

LIAM: What was the goal here? To grab part of the circle?

SAM: To break a piece of the circle.

MARISHA: To kick over their rocks.

TRAVIS: Did they say to bring one back? Or to break it? The relic.

MATT: They said desecrate.

MARISHA: They said it was the source of their power, right?

LIAM: Desecrate it?

TRAVIS: You ever stepped on an anthill, right? It gets real nasty, real fast.

LIAM: Is it an open area over the village?

MATT: It is a clearing of trees about 25, 30 feet across, and along the interior of the trees are where a lot of the homes are grown out of, or out of the ground almost like strange tree trunk roots up into a dome-like natural home, and even they're arranged in a smaller circle around the central stone circle that is the middle.

TRAVIS: Like forest wasps.

LIAM: It all depends on the definition of desecrate. I could fly you 500 feet in the air, and you could shit upon that circle. It just depends if that is desecration in the eyes of the fey.

TALIESIN: I will say that from what I gather of this realm, it probably isn't enough.

TRAVIS: What if we asteroid-dropped Keyleth from 500 feet?

MARISHA: That was very fun.

LAURA: That would take out the lot of them?

MARISHA: But it would take out the lot of them, right?

LAURA: It seems so drastic.

LIAM: The fairies or the fairy circle? Wouldn't it just destroy the circle?

MARISHA: How wide is the entire–

MATT: About 25, 30 feet for the entirety of the community. The circle itself is five to ten feet wide. It's not a very large circle at all.

TRAVIS: You'd be in your stone elemental form, it'd be no problem for you.

MARISHA: It'd be no problem for me.

SAM: I don't think she would ever get close to it. They have some sort of shield up.

TALIESIN: It'd be kicking the hornet's nest, certainly.

SAM: Tell me this, Vex, Vax. People with high perception.

LAURA: He's Vex, I'm Vax.

SAM: Where are the animal men? Are they watching us right now?

MATT: Perception check.

LAURA: That's double because of favored terrain. What is that, 20? No, 33.

MATT: 33. Doing a pretty intense scan of the vicinity of the forest around you, you see no sign of any of the previous pack that you encountered.

SAM: I think they're out there somewhere.

TALIESIN: I think they're probably hanging back a bit. I don't know if they'd want to get this close.

MARISHA: I'm sure they have other means of spying on us.

TRAVIS: I vote we don't fuck with the pixies. Never thought I'd say that.

MARISHA: Here's what I have at my disposal. A, I can shapeshift into a little tiny spider and go in there–

LAURA: Can you shapeshift into a pixie?

MARISHA: No, unfortunately. Beasts. Particular.

SAM: Can't you go underground and pop up?

MARISHA: Yeah. Once again, probably destroying their entire village, but yeah.

TALIESIN: The two of us could snipe something out.

MARISHA: But I could go in like a spider and be a spider. I also happened to bring Hallucinatory Terrain today, so depending on how smart we think the lycans are, maybe I can make it look like we destroyed it.

LIAM: How long does that last?

MARISHA: 24 hours. Let me double check before I make promises.

LAURA: I like this.

LIAM: Just to give us a day's head start.

SAM: What we could do, Grog and I could run back, I could cut him over the eye, and say: It was horrible. It was quite a fight, but we won.

LAURA: Do we need to let the pixies know that we're going to do this?

MARISHA: Maybe Scanlan, do you have something that could– I don't want to waste a spell and then find out that they have some sort of magical barrier enchantment that it can't stay up there.

TRAVIS: What, you'd waste Hallucinatory Terrain?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: When else are you going to use that?

MARISHA: Well, I'm burning a spell slot.

SAM: If they block it with their magical little crystals all over the place, then they'll also know we're here and they will attack us.

MARISHA: Yes, 24 hours for a 150-foot cube, I make a terrain look, sound, and smell like some sort of other terrain.

LAURA: I'm just worried that if you do it then the lycans are going to bust it, and then they just go to battle amongst themselves.

TALIESIN: Isn't that brilliant?

LAURA: This is actually really smart.

SAM: Wait, can you still tree-bamf us out of harm's way if we needed to?

LAURA: You've got the mansion.

SAM: I don't have the mansion.

TALIESIN: He's already burned the mansion.

SAM: I haven't slept in days.

MARISHA: The only thing I have that can get us out fast is Plane Shift, which will get us out of the Feywild, but I brought that just in case.

TRAVIS: Third option, we say fuck the lycans, fuck the pixies, and we just keep going.

LAURA: What if you do the Hallucinatory Terrain, and we just leave?

MARISHA: Yeah, we could do the Hallucinatory Terrain, and if it fails, then I guess we won't be in any worse situation.

TALIESIN: I'm a big fan of Hallucinatory Terrain.

SAM: If we do Hallucinatory Terrain and it fails, the pixies will straight-up attack us.

LAURA: How do you know?

MARISHA: Well, it won't hurt them. It just makes it look different.

SAM: Everything here has attacked us.

TRAVIS: All in favor of Hallucinatory Terrain, raise your hand.

SAM: We have to get the animal men here to see it, or else it isn't worth it.

LAURA: We cast it and we create a ruckus–

SAM: I will buy into this idea if we have a plan for when the pixies are about to literally attack us five minutes from now.

MARISHA: Well, we can do Hallucinatory Terrain, and if we run into the lycans, all we have to do is say we did it.

LAURA: Do Hallucinatory Terrain. Garmelie, which direction should we run if we're running towards where we're supposed to be going?

MATT: Garmelie has watched this thing with eyes wide, and he's like, “That way.”

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Weren't you dropping little green rocks?

MARISHA: I was dropping little green rocks.

TRAVIS: So we can find our way back to the lycans, right?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That's of course assuming that the little green rocks work here.

MARISHA: They were red. They were red rocks.

TALIESIN: There's an awful lot of reasons why the little red rocks wouldn't work.

TRAVIS: Okay. Let's do it.

LAURA: We take off running–

SAM: Wait, where are we running?

LAURA: Towards the bog.

SAM: Towards the what?

LIAM: We think towards the bog.

SAM: We're leaving Kiki and just running?

MARISHA: No, I can do this at a range of 300 feet, so let's back up 300 feet.

LAURA: You do it, we act like we did something, we start running.

MARISHA: Hallucinatory Terrain, are we doing this? Are we ready? Are we doing this? I did it, bamf.

MATT: So you stand back a bit at the outskirts. What kind of hallucinatory terrain are you creating?

MARISHA: I want it to look like the fairy terrain, but their little huts are on fire like they've been raided, and I want the circle of rocks to be obliterated, and all their statues to be knocked over and it smells like fire and shit and pixie blood. Like Grog said.

MATT: Grasping at what you imagine pixie blood would smell like.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm sure it smells delightful. Herbal.

MATT: So as Keyleth, you finish concentrating, you guys watch as there's a shimmer of magical energy, and now you see where once the beautiful glowing fairy light of the pixie abodes now look burnt to a cinder. You can see embers slowly rising off of them as the stone structures are now broken across the ground.

LIAM: The horror, the horror.

SAM: The pixies see it too, though.

MARISHA: They can see it, but they can also be like: oh, this isn't real.

LIAM: I grab Keyleth by the wrist and start running away from the village.

TRAVIS: Are we running back to the lycans or to the Shademirk?

LAURA: Towards the Shademirk.

TRAVIS: I've got Garmelie.

LIAM: Go, run faun, run.

LAURA: But keep on the lookout for mandrakes.

MARISHA: And werewolves.

MATT: Okay, so I want everyone to make a perception check.

SAM: Strong eight.

TALIESIN: Natural one.

LIAM: Natural one.

TALIESIN: No!

MARISHA: 22.

LAURA: No! 31.

TRAVIS: Natural 19.

MATT: What are you looking out for? Which direction are you looking?

LAURA: I'm looking towards where we're going.

MATT: Okay, so you're going with Garmelie, heading in the direction duskward. Where are you looking, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I'm looking out for werewolves, for lycans.

MATT: Okay. Where are you looking?

TRAVIS: I'm looking for lycans, too. I'm just being honest!

MATT: All right, so you guys continue pushing forward–

LIAM: I'm shouting: The way is clear!

MATT: All right, you guys run, and run, and run, and you're pushing through brush and pushing over elements and heavy hard portions of the floor. I need everyone to roll– this is going to be an athletics check for the keeping up the endurance and the speed. This is not easy terrain you continue to push through.

MARISHA: Athletics?

LAURA: I've got land stride, so I don't get slowed by any hard terrain.

MATT: You're fine. You don't need to roll.

TRAVIS: 24.

MARISHA: 24.

TALIESIN: 11.

SAM: I rolled twice, because of disadvantage. Both were ones.

MATT: You've hit the spectrum today.

LIAM: Well, I rolled a one, but then I used Luck and I rolled a 20.

MATT: You guys, calm down on the extremes! There are other numbers between those two, you realize, on the dice.

SAM: I'm tired from reading.

MATT: You're not reading during this run. But as you guys are charging forward, Scanlan goes face-first over a heavy root into the ground. You guys have to double back, grab him, keep going. You push on, and you push on, and you push on for what seems like another 30 minutes to an hour. Your pace starts to slow due to general exhaustion and you're unable to keep that speed and that level of physical exertion for that long. Most of you can't. Grog is happy to go forever. Constitution of 20; he's good to go.

LIAM: He's basically good against anything except one of the ancient dragons.

MATT: There's a few things he's not good against. Tiny brain with arms and legs, not so good.

TRAVIS: Fuck that little bastard.

MATT: That was fun. Eventually, you begin to see a thinning of the trees, like the forest is coming to an end. You're beginning to hit the edge of the duskward side of the Moonbrush.

LAURA: Are we going the right direction, Garmelie?

MATT: “As far as I know! Yes, we're going the right way!”

MARISHA: You're taking us through the bog?

MATT: “Through the Moonbrush. That's what we're going through.”

MARISHA: Still to the bog.

MATT: “Of course! Where else would I want to go?!” He's holding his hat and rushing along.

LIAM: You want to go to the theater.

MATT: “No theater!”

LIAM: What's your problem with the arts, man?

MATT: You guys, at this point in time, come to the final tree line, Vex and Vax and Garmelie helming at the front of the pace before all three of you slam into something extremely hard.

MARISHA: Oh fuck.

LAURA: What is it?

LIAM: Did it feel like a theater?

MATT: No, it felt like a wall.

LIAM: The wall of a theater?

LAURA: Seriously. A wall?

MATT: You stand back up and you guys catch up, and same thing: you come up to the edge between where the trees that hit the perimeter of the forest are, and there's a barrier, an invisible barrier right there that's preventing you from crossing.

LIAM: What is this thing, Garmelie?

MATT: “I don't know! I haven't encountered this.”

LIAM: Never ever?

MATT: “I don't walk into the middle of dangerous forests for fun!”

TALIESIN: I don't think we can leave until we take care of this.

TRAVIS: Wait. You can go invisible. Is it magic? Can you tell?

MATT: “I can have a look at it.”

TRAVIS: Yeah, have a look.

MATT: He comes up and looks over it for a bit. “To be honest, this is a large-scale enchantment. This is some sort of– this is very powerful, very old magic.”

MARISHA: Fucking old magic.

MATT: He turns around, looking at you guys. “Hi.”

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: Looking past you.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: As you guys turn around and see behind you what looks to be, shoulder to shoulder, a mass of furred, standing, snarling, beast-like humanoids. Behind them, landing and standing up to his full height, his snout having to dip beneath the brush under the nearest trees.

LIAM: See what we did to those pixies? Wrecked.

LAURA: Fucking destroyed.

TRAVIS: Cut me real quick.

MATT: At this point, you now see as Lord Ukurat steps from them, and they all begin to form a semicircle around you. He goes, “Were you trying to flee?”

TALIESIN: We were running from the pixies.

LAURA: We destroyed their home, and then we took off running. That's what you wanted, right?

MARISHA: They're so scary.

MATT: “If you had done what we asked, you would have been able to leave this forest.”

TALIESIN: So we have to try harder. It didn't work.

LAURA: Apparently, our methods were not complete. We will go back and we will do it better this next time.

MARISHA: To be fair, I don't remember entering a formal contract.

LIAM: You took off before we shook hands or anything.

MARISHA: You told us to go take a look at the pixies first. And to get a second opinion. And we have made it to the edge of the bog safely, without your need of safe passage.

MATT: He's already turned around and walking away. He says, “Do what you will. I have no interest in you. Liars, deceivers! You talk too much. Your meat would taste like ash in my mouth. Well, good luck. Enjoy your time locked in this prison like the rest of us!” The wolves turn around and walk away.

LAURA: Wait, you're locked in here because of the pixies?

TALIESIN: I feel like they're terrible communicators.

MARISHA: Yeah, they should've told us that. I don't think they wanted to tell us that.

LIAM: Would've been a good incentive for us to destroy the pixies. We can't proceed without destroying the pixies.

LAURA: A little communication is all we need!

TRAVIS: Can I take out my bloodaxe and go up to the magic barrier and hit it as hard as I can?

MATT: Go for it. Roll an attack.

TALIESIN: This is going to be appalling. Don't.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Okay, roll damage.

TRAVIS: How do I do that? I forget. I'm kidding.

MATT: It's been a few episodes.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: Okay. I need you to also make a wisdom saving throw.

TRAVIS: Sweet. Natural one.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LIAM: Got to love it when the crew laughs at your final death crack.

MATT: As you pull back with the bloodaxe, you slam with all your might into the barrier. As it hits, there's a streak, a flash of vibrant, bluish-white light and what sounds like the highest shriek you've ever heard in the entirety of your time on Exandria, at which point you watch Grog get flung backwards at incredible speed through the air, the actual blast sending you almost into your allies and party, slamming into one of the nearby tree trunks. The bloodaxe goes plopping to the ground as you feel a number of bones in your back crack from the impact. You suffer 28 points of psychic damage and 14 points of bludgeoning damage from hitting the tree.

TALIESIN: I feel like we all learned a very valuable lesson right now.

MARISHA: What's a good burrowing creature? A badger?

TRAVIS: Ow.

LAURA: I feel like we need to rest, you guys. We really need to rest.

TALIESIN: Let's sit down and camp, and in the morning, we'll go and kill some pixies.

SAM: Wait. Are we trapped in here because we were deceitful to these wolf-men, or because the pixies are trapping everybody?

LIAM: The pixies are bitter little assholes.

MATT: Garmelie goes, “That doesn't make sense. People enter and exit the forest without an issue.”

SAM: We entered.

MARISHA: Yeah, we entered.

SAM: So why are we trapped here? Because we lied?

MATT: “I don't know.”

TRAVIS: I just don't think we can go this way. (belches)

TALIESIN: I'm going to attempt to cast Minor Illusion on the other side of the wall. Just an image of myself.

MATT: Okay. As you attempt to cast the spell, the arcane energy dissipates upon impact with the barrier.

LAURA: Garmelie, who do you know that's left these woods?

MATT: “That would be my uncle Jameson, who's the person I learned most of this information about the Moonbrush from.”

LAURA: Your uncle Jameson, and he was definitely telling the truth that he went in the woods?

MATT: “He was probably a little intoxicated when he was spinning these tales, but–”

TALIESIN: Is Jameson his real name or a nickname?

MATT: “As far as I know, it's his real name.”

LAURA: So he knew about the happy camp.

MATT: “These were the things I was warned of, yes.”

LIAM: Do we want to waste any time trying to take your broom up and see how high this barrier goes?

MARISHA: I can dig and see if we can go under, just in case.

TALIESIN: That doesn't jive.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's true. It didn't hurt us when we just ran into it.

LIAM: No, when we ran into it, it felt like a brick wall.

LAURA: I guess I fly up. Can I fly up and see how high up it goes?

MATT: Sure. You get on the broom, you go past the canopy and eventually, the front of the broom clips and scrapes against, and you can see a little bit of a shimmer of the barrier that domes up.

LAURA: It's a bubble. We're in a bubble. I go back down.

TRAVIS: I have a proposal.

LAURA: Yes, Grog?

TRAVIS: Why don't we make our way back to the pixie dome and say: oh, we were chased by these horrible lycans! We wanted to kill them, but we got stuck when we hit this invisible wall. Could you do anything to help us get rid of the lycans? And then we play both sides of the coin.

SAM: That is way better than our first idea, and yet still terrible.

TALIESIN: I think we have to pick a terrible idea and stick with it until it becomes far too much for us to deal with.

MARISHA: Can I take a look around and do a perception check to see if anyone else might be watching us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: That's not bad. 25.

MATT: 25. You take a moment and glance about the tree line, the floor.

MARISHA: Are there rustles in the bushes from someone who might be invisible?

MATT: No movement any further. Once the rest of Lord Ukurat and his crew had vanished into the nightward direction, you've seen no movement since.

LAURA: I feel like they weren't that bad of guys. They could've attacked us, and they didn't. They just want out.

LIAM: They're certainly no meaner than Grog is. They're just scarier.

TALIESIN: I propose we take a nap. Go back and deal with the pixies one way or another.

LIAM: I agree with Percival. I think all our options are shit. We pick the least shitty and see what happens.

LAURA: Scanlan, can you sleep?

SAM: If I read for a few more hours first, sure.

TALIESIN: You'll take first watch.

MARISHA: How long have we been up?

MATT: At this point in time, I'd say close to eight, nine hours.

MARISHA: So it hasn't been a full day. Let's call it an early night.

LAURA: Read your book. We'll sleep.

TRAVIS: All right. You take first watch. We're going to zonk out.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: I'll stay up, as well.

MATT: So you're taking a short rest or a long rest?

LAURA: We'll take a short rest into a long rest. So he can finish reading and then we can sleep.

MATT: All right, sure. So you're taking first watch.

LAURA: And I'm up with him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I…

MATT: Can you…?

MARISHA: I want to go Minxie and do a little perimeter walk in the forest a little bit.

MATT: Okay. The rest of you guys are resting and finding camp here in a small section of the trees. You're on that weird cusp where, looking out towards the barrier, you can see the dusk light, the usual sky of the Feywild, and as you guys back up to find your camp, a little deeper in the forest where it feels safer and less exposed, looking up, you can still see the dark, starry sky and the moon, both visible from your position past the trees above and past the barrier in front. As the rest of you are resting, you're finishing up your reading. You go Minxie form, and you go wandering the perimeter. Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Natural one.

SAM: Looks like a seven. Nope, that's a one.

MATT: As you're stalking through, looking about, you catch a scent, a new scent. One you're unfamiliar with. It smells sweet, like a freshly fallen and opened fruit. You immediately instinctively look down and sniff across the ground. Out of the corner of your eye, you see a glow as you see two small, humanoid entities with pairs of wings flutter in in front of you and stop. What languages do you know?

MARISHA: Elven, Sylvan, Primordial.

MATT: Okay. You do understand what they're saying, as they are both talking to each other in Sylvan. One says, “I'm not familiar with this one! I don't think I've seen this creature in here before.” The other one glances over and goes, “You don't think she could've done it?”

MARISHA: What was that last bit? Sorry.

MATT: “You don't think that she could've done it? It's just a cat.” “Is it, though?” They both get closer and inspect ou. They're both rotating around your face and fluttering. One starts pulling on your ear a little bit, tugging on it.

MARISHA: I start purring.

MATT: “It's okay.” They move underneath, under your neck, and scratch just a little bit. The other one backs up and goes, “We have to keep looking. Something did this.”

MARISHA: I wait for a second, and then start stalking them.

MATT: You follow them?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. The rest of you guys are taking a rest. You continue reading.

LAURA: I'm awake. I'm keeping guard.

MATT: They stop and move, stop and move. They're doing a full perimeter. Apparently, they are some sort of a search party. Occasionally, you can hear bits and pieces of conversation at a distance, thanks to your better hearing as Minxie, but not incredible bits. They're discussing a scare. They're discussing the enchantment that was placed. They're discussing new intrusion. That's about the most you can make out of the conversation. You continue to follow them. You're going into the second or third hour of following them, and they're still doing a wide perimeter in the forest. They meet up with a third one, and they have a quick little discussion and then branch off.

MARISHA: Can I hear the little discussion, anything?

MATT: If you want to get closer.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check.

MARISHA: I have stealth as Minxie. I get benefits, right, as a tiger? Oh, yeah, I do. Oh, not good. Ten.

MATT: All right. As you creep forward in the middle of their discussion, the three of them all whip around at you. One of them pulls a wand out and puts it out in front, and the other two back up.

MARISHA: I just start eating grass.

LAURA: That's totally tiger-like.

MATT: The two that saw you before are like, “She's been following us.” “Why?”

MARISHA: I roll over and show my belly.

MATT: The one that has the wand out goes, “I don't want to take chances.” Puts the wand out. How many hit points do you have? In Minxie form?

LIAM: Shuffle shuffle, flip page, flip page, flip page.

MARISHA: Sorry. 52. They're going to Finger of Death me, aren't they? They're going to do something bad.

MATT: Okay. Raises the wand. There's a slight tingling sensation, and then nothing happens, and looks at the wand. “Strange.” They all convene and start whispering to each other very close.

MARISHA: I look distracted with other stuff. I sniff and wander off.

MATT: They separate a bit.

MARISHA: Just doing cat-like things.

LIAM: Just start pissing.

MARISHA: I mark my territory. I spray a little bit.

LAURA: Gross. That's foul, Keyleth.

MATT: You hear one of them say, “We can always correct it later, but best to be safe than sorry.” As you're peeing, I need you to make a–

LAURA: If she gets petrified while she's pissing, it's going to be–

MATT: I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: It's either a one or a 20.

MARISHA: I'll just start a new one. Don't worry about it. Fuck, why?

TRAVIS: Is this shit on camera? We're recording, right?

MARISHA: That one's a 19, can I go with the 19?

MATT: You can't take it off the table before it's real.

TRAVIS: Twice in a fucking row? What are the chances? Do it again.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a 16, that's good. Saving throw, so 21.

MATT: Constitution saving throw is 21 total?

MARISHA: I've got my ring of protection, which gives me a plus two.

MATT: Oh, right. So as you're peeing, you feel another warm tingle over one shoulder, and you feel your muscles tense a little bit, and then relax as the effect passes over you to no effect. The three pixies go, “We have to tell her. I don't trust it.” And they all flutter off.

MARISHA: Okay. I head back to camp.

MATT: A few hours pass. Keyleth hasn't returned. You're still reading.

LAURA: Keyleth? Keyleth, dear? Shit.

MARISHA: Whenever I'm back.

LAURA: Shit. I go and I kick Vax awake.

LIAM: Ow. Why did you do that?

LAURA: Oi. Your girlfriend's not back yet.

LIAM: What do you mean?

LAURA: She went off prowling as Minxie and she's not home.

LIAM: I take off flying.

LAURA: Fucking A.

MARISHA: Oh jesus. Oh man. I'm a big girl, come on.

LAURA: That is not what I meant for you to do.

MATT: This is your first time really trying out your wings. You're also in a very dense forest, so there's no space. As you heroically take off, you impact. Your wing hits a branch, and you go spinning out of the way.

LIAM: Can I Spider-Man from tree to tree like the werewolves did using the wings a little bit?

MATT: You're trying to. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage.

TRAVIS: It's like a Plinko machine.

LIAM: 28.

MATT: With disadvantage? You manage to not fall on your face, but it is a very clumsy-looking ascent. You make it, but a wingspan of that size, amongst tree-tops, is going to do very little other than what your general leaping would do. You get a little bit of gliding space from point to point.

LIAM: I'm still fucking asleep is the problem.

MATT: Yeah. But you don't fall. All right, so we'll say for the next couple hours you guys do-si-do in the forest until eventually you do convene. Your wings wear off, and you find yourself back at the camp, Minxie safely arriving just as you finish your final page of your book.

SAM: And it was all a dream. What a shitty ending. Who knew? It was terribly hacky and derivative, and it read like Fifty Shades of Grey.

LAURA: Scanlan, you–

SAM: What? Something different about me?

LAURA: I don't know. Did you do your hair differently today?

LIAM: Are you shorter?

SAM: I feel so interesting.

LIAM: That's impossible.

SAM: It could be.

MATT: And Scanlan goes right into the deepest slumber he's ever experienced.

LAURA: Good. You guys are back, everybody's safe, everything's good?

MARISHA: So I stalked a couple of fairies for several hours.

LIAM: I know all this. She told me two hours ago.

MARISHA: Yes, I caught him up a little bit as we were walking back. Pretty sure it is the fairies who are creating the magical barrier, and I'm pretty sure it's because we might've scared the living shit out of them, so it might've all been still our fault all along, like most things are, so we'll talk to the fairies tomorrow.

LAURA: If they don't find us.

MARISHA: They are actively looking for us.

TRAVIS: They saw you.

MARISHA: They saw me as a cat.

TRAVIS: What did they do to you?

MARISHA: I think they tried to cast several spells on me, and by some luck of the draw, I managed to feline my way out of them. I think they are looking for me and us, and I won't be a tiger anymore.

LAURA: Can I use my ranger abilities and try to disguise where we're camping?

MARISHA: Can I help hide? I'll help her a little bit.

MATT: You guys find a little alcove by one of the bigger trees nearby that has some of the roots recess inward, and you build a small camp there that's covered with thatch and branches.

LIAM: Do we have any concept of what time it is in this perpetual night?

MATT: You really have none.

LAURA: I'm going to get a little sleep, though, so I can get my spells back. Anybody else taking watch?

LIAM: Yeah, stay up with me.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: She needs to rest.

TRAVIS: I'll stay up.

MATT: She's already been up for four hours.

LIAM: Stay up with me.

TRAVIS: You can cuddle with me.

LIAM: Don't offer that.

TRAVIS: I know.

MARISHA: Okay. I will sleep, then, I guess.

MATT: Go ahead and nap. You guys are staying up.

MARISHA: I pick a space near Vax.

MATT: You guys make perception checks, both of you.

TRAVIS: Ten.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Okay. Partway into your watch, you do see, whereas there was the very faint, ever-present falling of the fey lights, you do see what looks to be two brighter lights that are traveling together, shifting about a little ways past your sight.

LIAM: Do you see that?

TRAVIS: Yeah, fireflies.

LIAM: No. Well, sort of. Let's watch them. I don't think we should go out. I think we should let the group rest.

TRAVIS: What, the little lights?

LIAM: No, your friends. We'll let them sleep unless those things come closer.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LIAM: Are they coming closer, or are they keeping their distance?

MATT: They're keeping a distance. They don't seem to notice you.

LAURA: They might've heard you.

MATT: All right, they come pretty close, actually. They start heading in your direction. Do you guys do anything? Are you going to stay quiet? What do you do?

LIAM: Don't move. I go stealth.

TRAVIS: I freeze in an exotic pose.

MATT: Make a stealth check with advantage because of the camouflage that she put.

LIAM: Do I have that camouflage?

MATT: You already have your crazy bonuses, but yeah, take advantage on that.

LIAM: 25.

TRAVIS: Eight.

MATT: Total of eight? With advantage?

TRAVIS: A six and a two.

LIAM: Come on, Grog! Come on.

MATT: All right. As they drift past, you hear a fart, which isn't what catches their attention. It's the pause after, and Grog uncontrollably laughing at it, partially because the intent of Keyleth staying close to Vax while you guys were resting, and it went in her direction.

MARISHA: I shuffle uncomfortably in my sleep. I don't know why I just had a nightmare.

MATT: You watch as two of these fluttering points of light about ten feet out.

LIAM: I'm staying still.

MATT: Stay there for a second, and then go darting off into the distance.

TRAVIS: One look and they ran.

LIAM: We have to talk about your diet.

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: Your diet! Do you eat any greens at all?

TRAVIS: Yeah, pickled herring, and I've been grabbing stuff as we walk through.

MARISHA: That just happened. He wants to talk about your IBS, and there are lycans.

LIAM: I crawl over to my sister and shake her and say: wake up!

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Don't fly away like I did. Oh, wait, your broom's over there, all right. They are watching us. They came in close, and then they left, so I don't think we're safe anymore.

LAURA: So we fucking should get out of here?

LIAM: Maybe, yeah.

LAURA: Wake everybody up!

TRAVIS: No, look. We've got to talk to them anyway, right? We're not going to run.

LAURA: At least we can prepare ourselves.

TRAVIS: How?

TALIESIN: Sleeping.

TRAVIS: Yeah, just keep sleeping.

LAURA: I wake Percival up.

TRAVIS: No!

LAURA: Percy.

TALIESIN: What? Yes?

LAURA: Hi, grumpy.

TALIESIN: What?

LAURA: We've been discovered by fairies.

TALIESIN: That's nice.

LAURA: Get ready to use your charming wiles.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: I'm going to let Scanlan sleep a little bit more, because he looks fucking exhausted.

LIAM: That's it, you put him back to sleep? You go back to bed, then.

LAURA: All right, fine. Can we make things look fancy around here so when they all come back, we look like we're ready to talk to them?

TALIESIN: I slowly crawl out. I pull out a piece of parchment, and I write: Hello, fairies. We're napping. And I put it on the tree above us and go back to sleep.

LIAM: You're letting Whitey go back to sleep, then?

LAURA: Whitey? Are you calling him Whitey as a nickname?

LIAM: Yeah. I think it's apt. Fuck it. I go back to bed. I spoon Keyleth and fall asleep.

MARISHA: I'll allow it.

TRAVIS: I actually go back to sleep, too.

LAURA: What in the fuck is going on here? How is this happening?

MATT: Vex, you're the only one awake.

TALIESIN: All right, fine, my watch. I'll get up.

LAURA: I'm going to sit up.

TALIESIN: I sit up and take the watch.

LAURA: Oh, you know what, I'm going to put out the little gold tea set, and I'm going to act like we're welcoming them to tea whenever they show up.

TALIESIN: I will take the watch, and I will make some tea with the tea set.

TRAVIS: The cups are bigger than they are. Oh, you made drowning pots for us all. How lovely. It's going to be a threat.

LAURA: I never did actually find out what this tea set does.

TALIESIN: We're about to find out, then, aren't we?

LAURA: Oh, you know what, and I take out my old wooden music box that I discovered.

LIAM: Yes, pull out all of your cursed items.

LAURA: And I wind it up and make some pretty music.

SAM: Like a crazy grandma in the woods.

TALIESIN: I am joining you for this ridiculous tea party.

LAURA: I like it, thank you. Don't drink out of the teacups, because I really think they might be cursed. Seriously, Percy, I know it's appealing to you, but don't get cursed again, all right?

MATT: All right, so. You guys prepare your tea. You set up your music box. A couple more hours pass, the rest of you coming to a semblance of a restful sleep. The only ones who didn't get a restful sleep on this would be Vex and… Percy?

TALIESIN: I specifically did not join those conversations.

MATT: You barely got in there. You do not get your spells back, unfortunately. Scanlan, you reduce your exhaustion by one point.

SAM: Oh, I got sleep?

MATT: You did, yes, so you're down to only one point, which means your speed is no longer halved.

SAM: Oh, I had two points of exhaustion? I thought it was just one.

MATT: You wanted to keep reading.

LIAM: Hair is shiny, eyes are bright.

TALIESIN: Your charisma's up by two, which means–

SAM: No, I already did it.

MATT: At this point, towards the end of this watch here, you see as a cluster of seven lights now start swarming in your direction.

LAURA: Oh, good.

MARISHA: Are we awake?

MATT: You're starting to come to as Vex begins to nudge you guys to consciousness.

SAM: Do I get spells back?

MATT: You do.

LAURA: Oi, Scanlan. Sing a happy tune about how much we love fairies.

SAM: Oh, sure. I love singing happy tunes. About fairies?

LAURA: Yeah, like how pretty they are.

SAM: How about I just sing a happy tune?

LAURA: Sounds good, too.

SAM: I'll sing a song about myself. The best kind of songs. (singing) Cube, glorious cube! You really should try it. If you're in the mood, I won't even hide it. I'll pull down my trousers for any gal or dude, O cube, glorious cube, wonderful cube, magical cube!

MATT: The sounds of your voice, accompanied by the music box playing through the air as the Wisher pixies arrive, at least this troupe of them come rushing up. You see they are all behind one that appears to have– while all of them have a slight white with a hint of pinkish glow, there is one that has a deeper purple halo around it. As they all approach, they stop, and the purple one goes up to the paper that was left on the tree. “So! Enjoy your nap?”

LAURA: I wasn't quite rested, but it was lovely here.

TALIESIN: There is tea. Would you like some tea?

SAM: We might have straws.

TALIESIN: I am tempted to fashion the thing that I use to pour my molds into little sippy cups that can be shared.

LAURA: We've been trying to prepare for your coming. Unfortunately, we don't have very much to make it appropriate.

TALIESIN: We are aware we need to have a conversation. Good morning.

MATT: “Yes, we do.” And the other pixies flutter down to the ground. She flutters down, as well, and they approach the tea set.

MARISHA: I say good morning to them in Sylvan.

MATT: They all look over, and they give a slight curtsey bow. You now have a closer look at them. They're all various lithe young men and women with little leaf-based or vine-based bits of attire. The one that has the purplish halo is an older one with whiter hair that's a little wild around the face. You can see the wings themselves look a little more tattered and worn. She's probably the respected elder of the troupe that's there. As they all step forward, she inspects the tea set and looks up. “So.”

LAURA: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. You see, we were trying to pass through these woods, and we ran into a band of very big, very mean-looking wolves.

MATT: All the pixies at once go (gasps) and they pull back. The purple one says, “You ran into them?”

SAM: Not only did we run into them, but they forced us against our will to attempt to do you harm.

LAURA: Which, of course, we didn't want to do.

TALIESIN: So we thought we would just trick them.

MATT: The pixies at this point are darting around to each of you. You each have a pixie hovering right in front of you, quickly inspecting your bodies. You can see now the central one, the glowing purple, is in the air, backing up.

MARISHA: They didn't bite any of us or get any of us. We're not infected.

MATT: They all look around. You see the pixies all turn back, looking, okay. One of them by Grog turns and goes, “He's been wounded!” Pointing at his head.

LAURA: His cut?

TALIESIN: Oh, that was him.

SAM: I cut his eyebrow, and then he fucked himself by trying to smash through the barrier that I assume you created.

TRAVIS: Yeah, don't go through that wall. But bidet.

TALIESIN: We're on a mission, though.

LAURA: A great mission.

MATT: “If we are to continue this conversation, we need comfort. He is disquieting. Allow us.”

LAURA: What are you going to–

TRAVIS: No, it's cool. Please, do as you will.

LIAM: What are we talking about?

TRAVIS: Let them feel at ease. Go ahead.

MATT: The older one glances over at you. Make a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: Natural one. (laughs)

MATT: As you grin, you watch as his flesh goes an even duller gray color as his entire body turns to solid stone.

LIAM: Is that temporary? Is that going to last?

MATT: “Now. Let us have a conversation.”

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: “So. You've encountered these beasts.”

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: And they instructed us to kill you.

TALIESIN: No, not to kill.

LAURA: They wanted us to hurt you. To destroy your circle of stones.

MATT: “They sent you to come and kill us and destroy our home?”

LIAM: We misspoke. To destroy this circle.

MATT: “You speak in many words that do not meet as one thought or theory.”

TALIESIN: Well, you're a bit intimidating.

MATT: As the very tiny pixies all look at each other and look at you large folk, there's a little chuckle under their breath.

TALIESIN: We are wise enough to not judge a man or woman by their size, good sir.

MARISHA: We didn't want to harm you, so we thought if we just made it look to those silly, dumb lycans like we hurt you. By throwing paper balls, if you will.

TALIESIN: Stop antagonizing the Grog statue.

MARISHA: I did just a simple visual spell, and we tried to move on, as to not get involved.

SAM: We did everything in our power to protect you, and to not harm you. If our druid's spellcasting frightened you, we apologize, but we didn't know what else to do.

TALIESIN: And we have a bog to destroy.

LAURA: Yes, we're on a very important mission, and we thought it might be the quickest way to complete.

TALIESIN: There's a cancerous tree that we have been sent to destroy.

LIAM: Honestly, we're scared of both you and the lycan, and we just want to pass through. We want no harm for you, and unfortunately, them, either. We just want to walk on out of here.

MARISHA: This is not our fight, you see.

MATT: The older one is glancing about, and a couple of the pixies drop next to her and whisper into her ear, and her eyes are still darting amongst you.

MARISHA: Can I understand what they're saying?

MATT: No, they're very small, and they're very distant.

LAURA: That's really, really off-putting.

MATT: It's impressive. The two pixies separate. The elder one crosses her fingers. “Few are those who would deal with such miscreants and foul entities as those wolf kin, so much as to give our little hearts a possible scare of death to our homes in an attempt to escape without but a conversation. This puts us at unease. We do not like being at unease.”

LAURA: Understandable. But we weren't trying to deal with them. In fact, we made no deal with them. We told them we wouldn't make a deal until we spoke with you. But we were scared. We were too scared.

MARISHA: They were trying to exploit our abilities. We were being held against our will. We were threatened with life or death. There was nothing personal.

LIAM: Their leader is massive. We were scared. This one wet his leg, and he's gigantic. We just didn't know what to do.

MATT: She puts her hands up. “Very well. Mistakes are made, and punishments are doled out. So. We shall return to our village. We shall lower the barrier to you, and all shall be fine.”

SAM: And our gray stone friend?

MATT: “He is your punishment for your infraction. But we've learned our lessons, and you may go about your way.”

SAM: How can we buy his freedom?

LIAM: We've got a tea set.

LAURA: How can we buy his freedom?

MATT: “There is no freedom to be bought. In these worlds, words and actions speak volumes, and you've crossed our people. Right now, we could take you all as new entries to our garden. We took but one. Be thankful you got off quite as easy. The Wishers set you free.”

LAURA: Thanks, Wisher.

MARISHA: It's okay. I can fix it.

SAM: What? What do you mean?

MARISHA: I have Greater Restoration. She left, right? That wasn't in front of her. I didn't say that to her.

MATT: Okay. She says, “Very well. Good luck on your endeavor.” The rest of the pixies gather up around Grog's body, and you watch as they all glow and his stone form, as heavy as it should be, suddenly becomes weightless.

SAM: Wait.

TALIESIN: Wait, no, we need that.

MARISHA: Oh, they're taking him. Oh! I cast Earthbind on Grog.

SAM: Earthbind?

MARISHA: Yeah. It should ground him.

MATT: It does. He slams into the ground with all the weight of a falling stone goliath into the dirt. At which point the pixies immediately go off and turn around. “You would cast incantations towards us?”

MARISHA: No, I cast it to my friend, who is about 12 foot tall and a giant target. Come on, don't make stories up where there aren't any.

MATT: “Stories, nothing.”

MARISHA: What? You fairies are manifesting these ideas, okay? You are creating a dichotomy that does not exist.

MATT: They all gather and begin to whisper to each other, their heads darting around.

MARISHA: Oh, see, look. They're doing it right now.

MATT: At this point: “This display is enough. Your words and your actions speak in difference, in entirely opposing directions. If you are to continue to throw these words, these deceptions, these lies in our direction, then perhaps we'll take you all for our garden.”

TALIESIN: I wouldn't advise that.

MATT: “Then let us take him, and you move on with your lesson.” And they go and pick him up once more.

LAURA: Wouldn't you rather have a song? Wouldn't you rather have– how often do you get a performance?

TALIESIN: I cast Hex on the main pixie.

MATT: You do?

TALIESIN: I do.

SAM: That's it, it's on. I call out to the main pixie: Wait. What's your name?

MATT: At this point, you guys watch as a shadow all of a sudden darts up from the ground and clings around the pixie. She whips around, at which point you now hear another (impact) as the stone Grog slams into the ground, all the pixies scattering around.

MARISHA: See, that is what it looks like when an incantation is targeted at you.

TALIESIN: It's not very nice, is it?

MATT: You now watch as all of the various very gently falling fairy lights begin to (flitting) and be absorbed by the pixies of the forest. As their glows intensify, the purple halo growing, you see the central elder figure of the Wisher pixies say, “At least our allegiances now lie bare.” I need you all to roll initiative.

LAURA: Can you quickly–

MARISHA: It's one action. It's one fucking action. I just looked it up for that reason. That's not good. That's not a good initiative at all.

LAURA: Natural 20 on an initiative. I don't know what I can do to them.

TALIESIN: 27.

MARISHA: I notoriously roll terrible on my initiative.

SAM: How many are there?

TALIESIN: A lot, but they die quick.

MARISHA: Are they going to form a–

LAURA: A Voltron?

MARISHA: That's exactly what I was thinking, yeah.

LAURA: I feel like it would be easier to hit if it was a giant Voltron.

LIAM: Oh, that angle is not going to be kind to those trees.

TALIESIN: What's the best check to give him? I can give him disadvantage on an ability check. So wisdom or intelligence?

LIAM: The werewolves were honorable. These guys are assholes.

LAURA: Yeah, I know.

TALIESIN: I feel better about killing them.

LAURA: Me, too. They're dicks. They were going to take Grog.

MARISHA: They were trying to take Grog. Fucking assholes. I feel like we were very reasonable, considering how unreasonable we normally are.

SAM: We were put between a rock and hard place.

MARISHA: And a hard Grog.

SAM: And we had no choice. Really. It was a bad situation.

LAURA: Grog is on the ground? Oh, he is on the ground.

MATT: Yes, he is.

TRAVIS: I'm stoned.

SAM: If Grog is permanently corrupted, we know that we can download a fresh one from Backblaze.com.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Beautiful. That was too good.

TALIESIN: Just couldn't let it go. I'm so sorry. I just couldn't let it go.

MARISHA: Was that my fault this time? it was a mild combination. I might have contributed.

SAM: We should've fought the fucking werewolves.

LAURA: Yeah, we should've, but we didn't, because we're idiots.

MATT: All right, initiative order. We have 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 27.

LAURA: 27, as well, with a natural 20.

SAM: 21 for me.

TALIESIN: We are some fast motherfuckers.

SAM: I got sleep.

MATT: All right. 20 to 15?

LAURA: Those fairies are so spread out. I thought they would all be together.

MATT: As soon as they dropped, they fanned out.

TALIESIN: We were trying really hard not to shoot first.

MATT: 15 to ten?

LIAM: 13.

MATT: Ten to five? And Grog is stone. Sorry, buddy.

MARISHA: You first, bud. Coming for you first.

MATT: All righty. Top of the round, Percy and Vex, you're up first.

TALIESIN: Where's the one that I hexed?

MATT: The one that you hexed, which I will mark here, looking overhead you can see is the one with the brighter, vibrant glow right there. That is currently the one, so I'm marking that as the Hex right there. There you go.

TALIESIN: Do you think they're really hard to hit because they're small?

LAURA: Probably. I'm going to move over to my left.

MATT: Okay. Here?

LAURA: Yeah. A little bit more. I want to line them up in a cone, so if I can get as many in a cone as I can.

MATT: Okay. Do we have the cone templates? Because they're not by me right now.

LAURA: It's a 60-foot cone there that I have. It's a big cone.

MATT: It's a very big cone.

LIAM: What about just a comb?

LAURA: I want to cast Hunter's Mark on the shiny one that he hexed, as well.

MATT: Hunter's Mark on that one as well.

LAURA: Double. They're weak, you guys! Milk jug rings, take them out.

MATT: Thank you, Zack. I appreciate that. So 60-foot cone. You can get four of them into it.

LAURA: That gets the mamba jamba? Okay, good. That's what I want.

MARISHA: What we don't want to do is spread out too much and get fucked.

LAURA: Conjure Barrage.

MATT: Conjure Barrage. All right. Dexterity saving throw. All right.

LAURA: It's a 15 for me.

MATT: That's a success. Success. Success. 18, 19, 19. And 16. All succeed.

LAURA: So they take half. 3d8, halved.

MATT: So roll damage, halved. Grog's stone form takes full damage.

LAURA: Oh. Sorry. 15, halved. Plus Hunter's Mark damage on the–

MATT: On the one, so roll for that one.

LAURA: I got three on that.

TALIESIN: Don't forget to Trinket.

LAURA: That's one action, isn't it?

TALIESIN: Is it an action?

MATT: It's an action to cast, yeah.

LAURA: So I can't use Trinket yet, because I already did something.

MATT: All righty, so as everyone gathers up, immediately as the fight begins you can see as Vex puts a Hunter's Mark on the purple glowing pixie and then pulls out an arrow, releases it, and then it scatters into a blast of various shards of sharpened wood, metal, and stone that goes shooting into the nearby trees. You can see the bark of the nearby tree trunks being covered with various bits of ranger shrapnel as most of the pixies try and avoid, but most getting blasted with some semblance of impact. That's going to end your turn, unless you want to move some more.

LAURA: I want to duck behind that tree, like it's going to do anything.

TRAVIS: How many points of damage was that?

MATT: To you? To your stone form? That was 15.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: From the blast of the impact you can see parts of the stone get rough a little bit at certain points.

TRAVIS: I can break.

LAURA: You can break.

MATT: Statues can break, and that's bad.

LAURA: That's super bad.

TRAVIS: Somebody lost an arm that way.

MATT: Do you want Trinket to move at all?

LAURA: Trinket runs and stands next to Keyleth.

MATT: All right. Got it. That brings us to Percy, same turn.

TALIESIN: Taking a shot with Retort, with the little pistol at the fucker I've marked. Dear god almighty. 16 to hit?

MATT: 16 does not hit. As you try to shoot, this tiny little glowing thing darts out of the way and the bullet goes wide.

TALIESIN: Shoot again. That's better. 25.

MATT: That does hit.

TALIESIN: Okay. It has been way too long since I've done this. It's making me a little nervous. There we are. That's 11 points of piercing damage. That's with three points of necro in there.

MATT: All right, so that's your second attack. This time you do see as it moves out of the way you compensate for it and fire, this time you see the purple glow flicker as it takes an impact and recaptures itself into its original position.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take one more shot at it with– remind me if I can do this– deadeye with sharpshooter?

MATT: Deadeye sharpshooter? You can do that.

TALIESIN: All right, deadeye sharpshooter. Thank god. This is just sucking. Oh my fucking god. I miss.

MATT: Okay. You don't misfire. All right, so after the second shot hits, you fire, trying to compensate a third time, but the pixie actually stays in position and your fire goes wide once more.

TALIESIN: All right. Now I'm diving behind that tree. Bottom right. Heading that way, yeah.

MATT: Cool, that ends your turn. The purple pixie leader, the mystic you mentioned before, now angrily comes fluttering forward, as you both have vanished. Seeing this little circumstance, is going to, from this position, look towards you at the very front, Vax.

LIAM: Shit.

MATT: It begins reciting under its breath.

SAM: I'll do Counterspell at level six.

MARISHA: Oh snapricot.

TALIESIN: Did you just say “snapricot?”

MARISHA: I'm a fucking hipster.

TALIESIN: This is going so poorly.

LIAM: (Gollum voice) Nasty.

MATT: As you cast your Counterspell, mark off your 6th-level spell. It finishes the incantation, as it does, a bit of arcane energy sprays forth from its fingertips and dissipates around it.

LIAM: Aw, that's sad.

MATT: Darts backwards.

LAURA: Out of camera view.

MATT: All right, Scanlan you're up.

SAM: They're so far, and I don't know what they can do. Probably a lot. I'll step towards that tree in front of me, in front of the bear and the girl.

MATT: That's far as you can get.

SAM: That cluster of the pixies over there? I'll see if I can get three of them in a Fireball.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: If I can, the leader and the ones closest to the leader. But I don't know if I'm within range.

MATT: Okay, you just using a single charge for it?

SAM: Oh yeah, I have lots of charges, don't I?

MATT: How many came back? You have to roll for the last couple of times you've gotten a full rest.

SAM: I haven't used them in a long time.

MATT: Yeah that's true, actually.

SAM: I'll use two. A 4th-level spell, right?

MATT: 4th-level Fireball.

SAM: So it's 9d6.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Range is 150 feet. Radius is 20 feet.

MATT: All right. As you pull out the wand and release it, one of the nearby pixies– It has no effect.

TALIESIN: Assholes.

SAM: Wait, they can do that, too?

MATT: Oh my god, other people can counter.

LIAM: Passive-aggressive dungeon master! Oh, that's so sad. Oh.

MATT: So the wand once again sputters out, as well.

SAM: It's dead? Or it still might work after that?

MATT: Well, it might still work after that.

SAM: That one use, okay. Can I move any more, or am I all moved out?

MATT: That's the end of your movement.

SAM: I'll inspire Keyleth. I'll turn to her and say: (singing) It's been a hard fey's night, and you've got to unfreeze Grog. It's been a hard fey's night, because we've been fighting like a dog.

MARISHA: Okay, I can do that.

MATT: That the end of Scanlan's turn? All right. It's now the pixies' turn.

LIAM: Damn it, Bobby.

LAURA: They're all super magic, super-duper magic.

MATT: Actually, it's going to stay here, and before it moves… that will be in range. If I could have Keyleth make a wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: This is my bailiwick, yo.

TALIESIN: You also have an inspiration die.

MARISHA: I have an inspiration die. Ooh, I don't think I'll need it, though. 28.

MATT: 28, yeah. No effect on you whatsoever.

MARISHA: You even lift, bro? Come at me, bro. Got the John Cena going on.

MATT: This one over here, as it flutters by after seeing you attempt to cast the spell, Scanlan, I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Oh, boy. Advantage against magic.

MATT: That's magic in general?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm looking at it. Yeah, advantage versus magic on his saving throw.

MATT: From what, though?

SAM: I don't know, bard shit.

MARISHA: Is it because War Caster?

MATT: No, War Caster is advantage on concentration checks to maintain.

SAM: No it's not War Caster. It's something else.

TALIESIN: It's on his sheet, which means he found it somewhere.

MARISHA: And it's typed. It's typed up; it's not written in.

SAM: I probably didn't get it anyway, actually. Both rolls were shitty, and I only rolled a total of five on the better one.

MATT: So as the pixie darts to the side, it mutters something underneath it and raises its hands up. Scanlan, all of a sudden your body shimmers for a second, and you guys watch as the already small gnome becomes even smaller.

LAURA: We're going to die.

MATT: He is now a badger.

SAM: I'm a what? I'm a badger?!

MATT: It then continues its movement over here by the side of the tree.

SAM: Gnome Cunning, Matt.

TRAVIS: I tried to be diplomatic.

TALIESIN: A lot of good it did you.

LAURA: Why'd you do that?

LIAM: That's Scanlan's bag, man.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I thought we were all– never mind.

TALIESIN: We would be getting our asses kicked by a group of werewolves right now.

TRAVIS: People were preparing tea, you were being cordial. I was trying to be disarming. Next time, everything dies.

SAM: This is our punishment for–

TALIESIN: Trying to settle this amicably.

MATT: For intelligence, wisdom or charisma–

SAM: Yeah, that was a wisdom.

MATT: Yeah, so you're fine. Universal, so strength saves, it doesn't help for any of those.

SAM: It's just saves against magic for those three things.

MATT: This other one here, glancing over and seeing you there, is going to look towards you. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: I've got advantage. Good, I got a 19.

MATT: 19. You have advantage from?

LIAM: Being a half-elf. Oh, it's not charm, is it? Then the first one was shitty. Ten or 11, somewhere around there.

MATT: You are a kitty cat.

LIAM: Can I use luck to take my second roll? I have luck left?

MATT: You have one luck left?

LIAM: I have two luck left, after sleeping.

MATT: Yeah, technically.

LIAM: Okay, so the second was a 17. Plus two, would've been a 19.

LAURA: So you're not a kitty cat?

LIAM: No, I really would like to be a kitty cat.

SAM: What happened?

LIAM: I asked if I could use one of my lucks instead.

SAM: So wait, he's not a kitty cat?

LIAM: In my heart, I am a kitty cat.

LAURA: Grog is stone.

LIAM: There's worse things than being a kitten, right?

MATT: This one over here leans towards you, Keyleth. I need you to make another wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Already? Come on. Come at me, bro.

LIAM: We should have all been pixies from the beginning.

MARISHA: Okay, 27.

MATT: 27. You never roll low on those wisdom saving throws. It's really frustrating.

MARISHA: Wise as fuck.

MATT: All righty, now comes to Vax.

LIAM: Click go the boots. I'm going to run 12 squares and squat down just north of Grog. I'm not going to shit on you. I think I can make it all the way around to the other side of Grog, and I'm going to dagger, dagger, dagger at queen of the pixies there.

MATT: Right there? Okay, go for it.

LIAM: Okay, first is shit, second is a natural 20. Third is an 18.

MATT: Okay, second two hit.

LIAM: All right. Yeah, but it's not anything fancy. That's the weakness of the rogue. Where's my pyramid? There it is. So the first one which was the critical is big 11 for the first one on a critical. And the second one, I'll put poison on it, as well. Seven for the damage, and it's a DC of 15, for poison.

MATT: For poison, it does not succeed. It is poisoned.

LIAM: That's 2d10. 14 with poison.

MATT: Nice. All right, so now the mystic, the central pixie is fluttering, but it's not looking amazing. All right, so that ends your turn? All righty. That brings us to Keyleth.

SAM: Shouldn't have gone in that cave, man.

MARISHA: Can I dash and go a little bit further and still do an action and lose a bonus action? No, it's either like run or nothing?

MATT: A dash is an action, meaning you move and then your dash, to move more, is your action.

MARISHA: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to try and start making my way towards Grog, I'm going to do the 30 feet towards him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Do I see the fairy leader?

MATT: You see her with a little bit of cover.

MARISHA: I'm going to blow my 6th-level spell. I'm going to cast Sunbeam, and Sunbeam her in the face.

TALIESIN: Does that go through her? There's one on the other side of her.

MARISHA: Oh! Does it go through to the one on the other side behind her?

MATT: No, it would go in this direction. She's right here.

MARISHA: I was looking at the red one, closer to me. I don't have the fucking pointer!

SAM: That's Grog, the red thing near you is Grog.

MARISHA: No, not that fucking red– this one. Yes, that one. Jesus. And the one behind it.

MATT: All right, so. As you muster your Sunbeam, the leader, who has not used her reaction yet, is going to attempt to counter that.

MARISHA: No!

MATT: 6th-level, though, so it isn't an auto-counter. She has to roll for it.

SAM: It's a contested thing.

MARISHA: Fucking bitch. I said bitch! I was trying to be nice to you fairies!

MATT: Counterspell, so that DC is 16. That is a 19.

MARISHA: No, it's not!

MATT: It is 19, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Goddamn it, that was a 6th-level spell!

MATT: I know.

LIAM: The grace and poise of the Ashari.

MATT: As you muster your Sunbeam, the currently wounded, poisoned– let me check one thing real fast. On attack rolls and ability checks, because she's poisoned, she has disadvantage and has to roll again.

MARISHA: That's right, she does!

MATT: A natural 20.

TRAVIS: No way.

MATT: Yeah. So it still counters it. So you go to put your Sunbeam, the light begins to build up into the middle of your grasp, as you're about to unleash it and she darts up from behind the side of the tree and unleashes a torrent of arcane energy that feels like a gust of warm wind hits and scatters the Sunbeam from your grasp, the spell lost.

LIAM: Umbrasyl, in the can. Fairies, dead as shit.

MARISHA: You guys are supposed to have good parades.

MATT: All right, that's the end of your turn Keyleth? All right. Garmelie turns invisible.

LAURA: Of course he does.

SAM: Don't they want to Counterspell that?

LAURA: Oh no, and he took out a tree while he was at it!

MATT: Got to find a way to fix the glare on the mat without the angle falling forward. All right, top of the round, Percy and Vex, you guys are up.

LAURA: You go.

TALIESIN: Okay. From my vantage point I'm going to sit down, take out Bad News, take another deadeye sharpshooter with Bad News at the big fat fucker by the tree.

MATT: As of right now, technically, you have no sight on her.

TALIESIN: I don't?

MATT: You are way back there, and she is completely behind the tree.

TALIESIN: Can I take a step out to the left? As long as she has less than three-quarters cover, I'm okay.

MATT: Right, so you would have to move– she's very tiny, and the tree that's probably five foot or more thick. So based on her size, as part of her advantage in using these trees is you'd have to get over here before you can see her.

TALIESIN: Okay, so I'll move to my right a little bit, then, and I will shoot that fucker that's right in front of me.

MATT: All right. This one?

TALIESIN: Yep. Sharpshooter and with deadeye.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's a natural 20. That makes the grit go away, anyway, so nice.

TRAVIS: Fucking golden snitch.

TALIESIN: That actually wasn't the golden snitch. I was just feeling like they had something on me. Okay, so this is double the dice?

MATT: Yeah, you roll the dice and then double that.

TALIESIN: Roll the dice, double it, and then I add everything. Lordy, this is going to be disintegration. Six, 12, 22, 28 points of damage.

MATT: 28 points of piercing damage?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: To that one, all righty. That's adding the sharpshooter?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I rolled really low.

MATT: Okay, gotcha. Okay, so you take the shot, the blast echoing throughout the trees and the treeline. You watch as the pixie takes the slug and actually gets thrown to the ground and then flutters back up, barely.

TALIESIN: Flutters back up, barely?

MATT: Yeah. It was undamaged before.

TALIESIN: Nothing fancy, just hitting it again.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: That's a 23.

MATT: That'll hit. Roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's better. 24 points of damage.

MATT: 24 points of damage. You hear this horrible, high pitched (yelps) as the light is scattered by a burst of what looks like a tiny blood spray, and dust and smoke.

TALIESIN: I call out: One! And back up behind the tree.

MARISHA: Out of how many?

MATT: All right, Vex.

LAURA: Okay. If I step out from behind the tree, do I have a sight on the big one?

MATT: You do have a sight on the big one, yes. It'll get cover bonuses. You'd have to get over here to see it.

LAURA: Can I walk over there, then? Okay. I walk to there. I want to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel and attack it.

MATT: You initiate the bow, pull back the arrow, and release as it splits into three different arrows.

LAURA: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: I'm looking at it.

MATT: Jesus Christ. Okay.

SAM: Defying statistics, one roll at a time.

LAURA: 12 plus 12. 24.

MATT: Okay, 24. Wait, 12 plus 12, 24? All right, so the second one hits.

LAURA: And then 22 on the third.

MATT: All three hit. Even with three-quarters cover, the last one just barely hits. Roll damage on all three.

TALIESIN: Kill them all.

LAURA: 20 on the first hit, no– oh shit. You double the dice? Six, that's 12.

LIAM: So add six to what you were saying, originally. You said 20, so it'd be 26 if you're doubling that die.

LAURA: 26 plus another five, so 31 on the first hit.

MATT: 31 on the first hit, okay.

LAURA: 17 on the second.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: 17 plus five is 22 on the third.

MATT: You watch as the purple light gets stapled to a tree in the back. You watch as the arrow hits her and carries her and she tries to pull herself off of the arrow as it's holding her against the distant tree and then it goes limp against it and the light slowly fades.

LAURA: Oh. So I shout out: Two! Your leader's dead! You want to still fight us?

MATT: You've got two more squares of movement if you want to use them.

LAURA: I move towards the tree.

MATT: This way or this way?

LAURA: That way.

MATT: This way. All righty, that ends your turn. It would be her turn, but she just got stapled to a tree. Scanlan, you're up.

TALIESIN: Build a dam. Sorry.

MATT: No, she didn't turn you into that. One of the other ones did, I believe.

TALIESIN: Actually, the one I killed turned him–

MATT: You're right. Thank you. Scanlan has dropped beaver form.

SAM: Oh my god, I was not expecting that, and therefore have no idea what I'll do. So there's pixies everywhere?

MATT: You can only really see one of them right now. Yeah, this one's supposed to be there.

SAM: Which one?

MATT: You can see that one over there.

SAM: Is there one behind me? You can't see one that I can see, actually. There's one around the tree.

MATT: Oh, sorry, two. You can see that one, yeah.

MARISHA: I'll help him first, but yeah. I can do that.

LIAM: They could possibly turn on us, though.

MATT: What're you doing, Scanlan?

SAM: I wasn't expecting to move! I can't see the leader, right?

MATT: No, you can see the leader. She's fucking dead, yo.

TALIESIN: She's pixie dust.

SAM: Shit! Not ready for this!

LIAM: Y'all ready for this?

SAM: Shit! Okay, I'll turn around, and let's just hope that it works this time.

LAURA: Wow, this is the longest–

SAM: I don't know! I wasn't expecting to move! How close am I to that one near the tree? Can I move to her?

MATT: Here? This one or this one?

SAM: The closest one to me, and how close am I?

MATT: This one's closest to you, and it's 20 feet from you.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to run to it, her, it, whatever, because I don't think they can– well, maybe they can Counterspell this, but I'll do a Thunderwave.

MATT: You do a Thunderwave?

SAM: Yeah. At level two.

MATT: That one is going to attempt to Counterspell. Each one of them gets a Counterspell; that one's not done it yet.

SAM: I do have a sword, shit, I'm the worst at this!

MATT: So as you rush up and begin casting it sees you rushing up and its eyes go wide for a second as it instinctually puts its hands out and the Thunderwave falls flat before you.

SAM: Shit, I'm the worst at this!

TALIESIN: Going to be a beaver again.

SAM: I am going to be a beaver again. That's it. That's all I can do.

LAURA: I thought he was a honey badger.

MATT: Little angry badger.

SAM: Who's alive still? I'll inspire… shit, I'm failing.

TALIESIN: I've never seen this before.

LAURA: He's broken. It's stealing all of his energy!

TALIESIN: Inspire Vax.

SAM: I'll inspire Vax.

LIAM: Which one?

SAM: The girl!

TALIESIN: The guy!

SAM: I don't want to inspire him. I want to inspire her.

MARISHA: That's Vex.

SAM: Vex, the girl. I'll say: (singing) Vex is natural, Vex is fun! Vex is good when she's one-on-one.

LIAM: I was next to go, but that's still good.

SAM: I don't know. I was a badger! I don't know what's been going on.

MATT: All right, that completes your turn. You take your inspiration dice. It is now the pixies' run. This one over here at this distance is glancing over and saw its leader get thrashed off to the side after having a series of daggers thrown into it. You attempted to cast a giant beam at that one in the distance as well, though, so I'm going to say it's going to go for you. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: What? Why that one? I do still have my inspiration.

TALIESIN: This ain't going to be no thing. It's going to be great. It's going to be beautiful.

MARISHA: Natural 20! My voice just cracked, but it's a natural 20.

TALIESIN: Isn't it hilarious that we all have work tomorrow?

MARISHA: It is. No, I have a recording and an audition tomorrow.

LIAM: It actually rolled when you moved the paper.

LAURA: When you moved the paper, you rolled it.

MARISHA: No, I did, guys.

MATT: Roll it again.

LAURA: I'm sorry!

MARISHA: When I revealed it, it was a 20. That's okay. I'm going to do inspiration though, just for safe measure. That's good, so 20 total now.

MATT: 20 total, okay.

MARISHA: That's still exciting.

MATT: As it reaches out towards you, you feel your physical body all of a sudden begins to tighten, and you flex, and it regains its composure. No effect.

MARISHA: And I just give her a– (grunts) from the corner.

MATT: This one here is going to dart past, and as it does, from tree to tree, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Straight up 15. Fuck it, I'll use luck. I've got one more. Another 15.

MATT: 15 total? All right, you are currently restrained as your body tightens up and you are unable to move, shift, take any actions.

MARISHA: Did you go, too?

LIAM: I was about to, but not anymore.

MARISHA: Are you petrified, too?

LAURA: No, he's restrained.

MARISHA: Did he get turned to stone?

MATT: His body is beginning to turn to stone right now. His muscles are beginning to tense up. As this one darts past, it is going to attempt to– I need you to make another constitution saving throw, Keyleth, as it watched it fade from the last one.

MARISHA: I don't have any inspiration left. Natural 20! This is a real one, this time! A real one!

TRAVIS: What is the deal?

MATT: We're gone for one week. You guys can save these for throughout the campaign. This is a pixie fight.

LAURA: It's a really powerful pixie fight.

MATT: These are nasty in their strengths. They're not very strong in a lot of things, but the few things they have are pretty good.

MARISHA: We know. We're still terrified.

MATT: Good. Well, you resist your second attempt at being petrified.

LIAM: Am I restrained, or am I slowed?

MATT: You're restrained, which means you can't move. The actual definition: attacks against you have advantage. Your attacks have disadvantage.

LIAM: So I can still do stuff?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: What do freezing up and haste do mixed together? Anything? Cancel out?

MATT: It doesn't cancel out, it just means that you have disadvantage on all of your attacks. Your speed is zero; you can't move.

LIAM: Do I have a third attack?

MATT: You do have a third attack.

LIAM: Very confusing. Feywild, man.

SAM: You're fast and slow.

TALIESIN: Hot and cold.

MATT: This guy here– I need you to make a constitution saving throw as it peeks around the tree from its current position.

LAURA: You get one, and you get one! And I'm going to fail.

SAM: You've got some inspiration, lady.

LAURA: I got inspiration! 21!

MATT: 21. You resist the effect.

SAM: I was right to inspire her after all. Someone's got to live!

TALIESIN: To tell the tale of the death and end of Vox Machina to little people.

LAURA: How many more pixies are there?

MATT: That was the last one going on its turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I am going to dagger, dagger, dagger the pixie in front of Scanlan, so I should get sneak attack? I don't have advantage, so I don't get sneak attack. That's three attacks. First one is shit. 19?

MATT: With disadvantage? Hits.

LIAM: All right. Second one is 19.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: The last one is a 15.

MATT: Misses. So two hit.

LIAM: Yeah, whatever. 11. And eight. 19 total.

LAURA: Can you poison damage it?

LIAM: No.

MATT: That one's looking pretty rough right now, actually.

LIAM: And I say: (strained).

MATT: At the end of your turn, I need you to make another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Come on! Do you have any more luck?

LIAM: No, I used it all up. I didn't cross it off. Two.

MATT: Vax now turns to a solid stone statue, frozen in place. Two members of your party are now turned to stone. All right, that brings us to Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: I'm going to continue my two steps towards Grog, since he was my first destination, and do Greater Restoration and unpetrify him.

MATT: Okay, what level is that spell?

MARISHA: Fucking 5th.

MATT: 5th-level? Only one of them has Counterspell left, and it's going to attempt it, but since it is at 5th-level, mark that off. It does still have to roll against it. DC is ten plus five, so DC 15.

MARISHA: If they make this, it's bad news.

TRAVIS: They made it, didn't they?

MATT: Yeah. It's a 15 plus three, sorry.

MARISHA: They had to make 15? Not my spell save DC or anything?

MATT: That's not how it works for Counterspell. The good news is they're out of Counterspells.

MARISHA: Fucking fantastic now that I've burnt through two of my top-level ones!

MATT: You reach forward and grab Grog. You see the pulse of energy, and it dissipates. You look over at the edge of the tree. You see one of the pixies darting behind and disappears behind the trunk. That ends your turn. Back to the top. Percy and Vex.

TALIESIN: I'll go. Do you want to go first? I'll go first.

MARISHA: Wait! I wanted to do a bonus action! I did want to do something on a bonus action.

MATT: What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Can I Alter Self my throat and (howls) give a wolf howl?

MATT: Sure, make a performance check.

SAM: Are you calling for the fucking werewolves?

MARISHA: Yes, I'm calling for the lycans. Ooh, that's good. 23.

MATT: Good to know. You howl out into the woods. Ends your turn. Percy, Vex.

TALIESIN: I'm going to flip around and take a shot at that jerk right there with the Retort pistol, not the Bad News. Standard shot. That's a 31 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: And that's 14 points of damage.

MATT: That one is spattered by the impact. You see the chunks of it hit the tree behind, and you see a wing right in front of you, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: I reload. I flip around the other side of the tree.

MATT: Over to this side here?

TALIESIN: Over to this side so I can get a good vantage point on that one that thinks it's hiding right over there. I use my bonus action to cast Hex on him.

MATT: To carry it over?

TALIESIN: Yep, to carry it over. And I take a shot at him. That's 22 to hit?

MATT: 22 hits.

TALIESIN: Ten points of damage. Three necrotic.

MATT: It gets shot. The impact hits the tree next to it, but it splinters and hits it, takes some damage but not a whole lot.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn an action surge and take three more shots at it.

MATT: You can do that. You're ignoring the cover because of your sharpshooter feat, so go for it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to roll a sharpshooter for that one, as well, which is great because I rolled a two and a natural 20. That's natural 20 with sharpshooter. That also means that I lose that grit. This is going to be great. That's great. Ten, 20, 30, 36 points of damage.

LAURA: How many fairies are left?

MATT: You have currently two fairies left.

LAURA: I don't see them on the board from where I am.

MATT: No, you don't see them. They're hidden.

TALIESIN: I'm taking two more steps, and I'm getting that next fairy that thinks he can fucking hide from me.

MATT: There are two behind this tree and one behind this tree.

TALIESIN: I'm taking one more step out so I can see him. Actually, I have pretty good sight, don't I?

MATT: From there, you can still see him.

TALIESIN: I've got two more shots. I'm going to do the same thing with the sharpshooter deadeye combo. That's right. I can't get Hex until next round, though. 27 to hit.

MATT: Hits. Damage on that one?

TALIESIN: That's 16 points of damage.

MATT: The pixie gets hit and holds itself against the tree. Its wings stop fluttering. It looks over at where the impact came from and stares down at you.

TALIESIN: Another shot at him. Same deal.

LAURA: I can spot him now because I can see where Percy's shooting at, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: 28.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: Eight points of damage.

MATT: It gets another hit. This one impacts just near it and clips one of its wings. It's still holding in there.

TALIESIN: I dive back around the tree, and that's the end of my turn.

LAURA: Where was it that he was shooting at?

MATT: Over this way.

LAURA: Can Trinket reach it?

MATT: Trinket can try. Trinket's not going to be able to get there, though.

LAURA: Then I'm going to attack it. Can I attack it from where I am?

MATT: You currently have no way of seeing it right now unless you move far enough in that direction. You may.

LAURA: I'm going to try to get into sight.

MATT: That's as far as you can get. I would say it has three-quarters cover, so you can attack it, but it gets plus five to its AC.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to attack it. 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: Then I'm going to attack it again with my blazing bowstring. 26.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Can I move my Hunter's Mark over?

LIAM: Eye squint says no.

MATT: Sure. Because it's a bonus action, you would've done it.

LAURA: Thanks, man! Okay, seven plus seven. 22 on the first hit. 24 on the second hit.

MATT: (arrows loosed) Off to the side. One arrow actually grabs it by the shoulder and hits it against the tree there, and as it tries to pull the arrow out, which is this giant shaft that's shattered its shoulder entirely, it looks back at you as you take its head off its shoulders.

LAURA: Teeny tiny little piece of shit!

TRAVIS: The cutest swear ever.

LAURA: I can't move anymore?

MATT: No, that's as far as you can move. Does that end your turn? Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Do I see any of them?

MATT: You do not.

SAM: Shit. I'm going to run as far as I can into the open and see if I can see any of them, while I'm yelling: Where are they?

MATT: You can just barely see two of them behind that tree right there.

SAM: Behind that tree? You mean behind Grog and stuff?

MATT: Behind Grog, Vax, Keyleth, and that cluster.

SAM: Do I have a clear shot? Without killing my friends?

MATT: Depends what you're doing.

SAM: With a Lightning Bolt.

MATT: It's probably going to hit Vax, but who knows the effect lightning would have on stone?

SAM: Well, then I won't do that. I'll cast Bigby's Hand at level seven and punch into that.

LIAM: Big swollen hand, fucking fat veins on the back of the hand.

MARISHA: Have you been lifting, Bigby?

LAURA: You're looking good, Bigby.

MARISHA: You know those Hulk gloves?

MATT: At 7th-level. So it does an additional 4d-whatever it does. So which ability are you using Bigby's Hand?

SAM: Just a big old punch. Pummeling hand. Punching hand.

MATT: The clenched fist. Roll a melee spell attack against its armor class. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack bonus.

SAM: 25.

MATT: That hits. Roll 8d8 force damage.

SAM: 8d8? I don't even have any.

TALIESIN: Here's two more d8.

MATT: It's 4d8, but because you did it two levels higher, it's 8d8.

TALIESIN: Roll them twice. Whoa!

MARISHA: Oh shit. You're a force to be reckoned with. They were all above seven.

TALIESIN: You're going to leave an impression in the tree.

SAM: 45.

MATT: Where once there was a pixie, there is a brief spatter of reddish-pink mist, and nothing thereafter. Bigby's Hand has sent it so hard to its afterlife that there is a small black mark on the tree nearby where it once was, just an echo of its existence at one point.

TALIESIN: You just clapped a fairy to death. That's actually literally the opposite.

MARISHA: High five! Aw.

SAM: Is that all the pixies?

TALIESIN: There's one left.

LAURA: We shouldn't kill it! See if it can unfreeze our friends!

SAM: I got nothing left. That was my action and bonus.

MATT: All right, end of Scanlan's turn. The pixie then turns about and begins running. As it disappears past the trees a little bit, you watch as a large, dark form lands right in front of it. It stops for a second, and two giant claws reach down and grasp it in its hand, pick it up, and you can see before you, Lord Ukurat is now clutching this one pixie that was trying to escape. Looks inside for a second. (chuckles) “Vengeance is tasty.” (chomps) “Not very filling.” Stomps forward.

LAURA: Be confident!

MATT: “So. You called.”

SAM: We called because our plan worked perfectly, and we were able to fulfill your deal to the letter, as we had always intended.

MATT: Make a deception check.

MARISHA: Come on, Scanlan!

SAM: I think I'm still at disadvantage.

MATT: On ability checks, you are.

SAM: With disadvantage, it's a 30.

MATT: You can also add your own bardic inspiration to your ability checks now because you're level 14. But if you feel pretty confident with it–

SAM: I'm okay with 30.

LAURA: Oh no! Should you add it? Add it!

MATT: It's too late.

SAM: We'll never know.

MATT: You're going to know pretty quick. As you say this, he comes forward and gets really low to the ground with his arms out at the sides, face right up to you. He could snatch you up in one bite. He goes, “Clever gnome.” Stands back up. “So. One pixie, two pixie, three, four. Where is their leader?”

TALIESIN: I walk over and scrape the tree.

MATT: Takes a look at it. (howls) All the rest of the various members of his clan of the Fendirs begin to arrive in the distance. “Yes, my lord?” “The mystic is dead. Wipe up the village. Come. You have the rest of your deal to attend to.” Turns around and begins walking back toward the city of the pixies.

LAURA: We have some friends that are stone right now.

MATT: “Then bring them along!”

SAM: Keyleth, do you need help?

MARISHA: I take my last 5th-level spell to dump a Greater Restoration into Grog to bring him back from petrification.

SAM: You can't do it to two people at the same time?

MARISHA: I can burn my 7th-level spell to bring back Vax.

LAURA: Maybe you should do that.

MARISHA: I will burn my 7th-level spell to Greater Restoration Vax and bring him back.

MATT: You come to consciousness, Grog, suddenly, in a different space than you recall, a little stiff in the joints, like you just had a really bad night's sleep across a whole pallet of broken rock.

TRAVIS: Diplomacy really isn't that bad!

LAURA: It's not so bad. Good job, Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm going to throw my weapons in the river. Hold on, I'll be right back.

MARISHA: You make a great parade balloon, by the way. You look great.

TRAVIS: Why, thank you.

MATT: Vax, as you come to, the heat of the moment, you catch your breath again, and feel that achiness in your joints.

LIAM: I do, I literally do.

LAURA: Doesn't feel so good, does it? Hey, remember when I was made into stone? We're twinkies.

LIAM: Twinkies? I don't think that's the term you're reaching for.

TRAVIS: All the wolves are back. What happened?

TALIESIN: We are going to finish off the fairies.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

TALIESIN: Yes, really.

TRAVIS: Oh, so something happened, didn't it?

TALIESIN: It did.

SAM: Sorry, Grog.

TALIESIN: It was all your fault, really. You were very helpful.

MARISHA: To be fair, I tried. Those fairies are shifty little shits.

TRAVIS: Really? They fought hard? We're going to kill more now?

SAM: Probably.

TRAVIS: Any tips? Advice?

TALIESIN: Hit hard, repeatedly.

SAM: Don't use any of your lower-level spells.

TRAVIS: Don't think that's a problem.

TALIESIN: No, you burned your lower-level spells.

MARISHA: I am burnt out on all my higher-level spells.

TRAVIS: Are we cool with the wolves now?

TALIESIN: We're starting to be.

LAURA: We have to go finish what we started, though. They want us to still desecrate the stones.

LIAM: Scanlan?

SAM: I'm ready. I've eaten a lot of things today.

MATT: Garmelie appears behind one of the trees. “Is everything cool? Everything good?”

MARISHA: Oh my god, you're still here!

MATT: “Okay. No, I was– got you guys' back.”

LAURA: Did you draw a lot of the fight? I hope you did, because we kicked some ass there.

MATT: He opens his sketch pad, and you can see there's a bunch of hastily drawn sketches of Vax turned to stone with his finger up his nose, Grog in the ground with his stone thumb up his butt, smiling with his other thumb up in the air like he was. And the rest of you fumbling your attacks as the pixies are laughing.

LAURA: Sweet. Nice. Very good. That tree just moved.

TALIESIN: They do that here.

MATT: Welcome to the Feywild. So you guys make your way nightward? Following the Fendirs?

TALIESIN: I guess it's the only way out of here.

MATT: You journey with them. They make a pretty quick pace. Even at your fastest, you resort to tracking them. They're moving with quite alacrity and they know this forest really well. As you guys begin to approach the outskirts of the little grove where the Wishers existed, you see a heavy battle has just begun to calm down. You see two additional wolf statues now stand amongst the area, but the abodes have been destroyed. You see that the tiger has grabbed a pixie and tears it in half. A couple others that have been darting off in the distance, trying to escape, three more of the wolves jump up into the trees, and you see them jumping from branch to branch before their lights–

MARISHA: We tried. I didn't want this to happen.

TALIESIN: It's a violent world.

MATT: At this point, they all begin to slowly gather again towards the center of the town, or what used to be the pixie town. From the treetop, (boom) Lord Ukurat lands next to the stone circle, looks out towards you guys, even beyond the tree line.

SAM: Grog, care to do the honors?

TRAVIS: Absolutely. I walk up to Lord Pup.

LIAM: I'm going to follow close behind Grog.

MATT: All the rest of the Fendirs, which are now a few more in number than you initially met before. We have two more that have turned to stone, so there's now five total that are stone in the center of this village, but looks to be about nine of them now gathered up centrally to this space, Lord Ukurat in the center. They're beginning to follow in around you guys, keeping a perimeter. Ukurat looks down at you as you approach. “So. Honor comes at the end of the journey. We made a pact, and you completed your end. We complete ours. You are free to pass through this forest.” As Lord Ukurat reaches down and grabs two of the stones, you can see as his fingers grab them, they're burning his palms, singeing. There's a bunch of energy pushing back on him as his fur is blown and there's a bright light emanating from the center of the circle. Wrestles them forth from the ground. As he does, there's a crack of thunder that cascades throughout the center of the forest. All of you feel the impact. The stone circle, the glowing quartz now dims and goes cold. The center where it used to be vibrant grass slowly turns to a dull gray and withers between the stones. Throws them to the ground. “Now, we are all free. You say you travel duskward to the corrupted tree, yes?”

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: “I will follow as my people find a new home for tonight. Should you need my help, just call, and I will be at your back.”

LAURA: You are a powerful ally.

MATT: “As are you. Brethren, go. Spread. Find a home again. I will return to you once this debt is paid. Now, I'll be watching.” He leaps into the treetops as the rest of the wolves begin to back away from you and vanish into the shadows of the forest.

LAURA: Is there anything around that looks good to take?

SAM: Should we loot the mini city?

TALIESIN: I am abso-fucking-lutely looting this city. Are you mad?

SAM: They're tiny thimbles full of nothing!

TALIESIN: I have a dollhouse at home! There are things that are necessary! Jesus.

MATT: You are welcome to make some investigation checks to scour through the remains of this pixie village.

SAM: 17 for me.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. What was it again, sorry?

TALIESIN: 13.

MATT: The rest of you guys keeping back on this?

TALIESIN: I'm taking the crystals, too. The dead crystals.

MATT: You take the dead crystals, and the rest of them lift up like any other crystals. They're lighter than you expected. They seem almost frail, like a volcanic rock in lightness and brittleness, but more dense. You take those, keep them to yourself. You guys look about, and most any pixie furniture has been destroyed. In searching through, you do find in some of the homes a number of well-polished gems. You find two sapphires that are worth, after looking over them for a bit, in your experience with gems, about 200 gold apiece. You find one cracked diamond. It was very well-cut at one time. As such, what would have been worth thousands of gold now is maybe close to a thousand gold at most. It can maybe be repaired or brought to somebody who can fix it up. It might be worth more. You also find what looks to be a really intricately carved onyx statue of a dog, about that big. It's really well-carved. Other than that, most everything else is just inconsequential decorations that wouldn't be much help to you, as they were smaller people.

TALIESIN: I say we get to the edge, out of this forest, and then maybe call it a night.

MARISHA: I'm a bit tapped on my higher-level energy, but can I maybe take a minute to ritual cast Greater Restoration on the two new statues of the lycanthropes?

MATT: Is that a ritual? I don't believe it can be cast as a ritual, can it?

MARISHA: Greater Restoration? I can't take my time with it?

MATT: You would have to stay here the night and do it again.

MARISHA: They'll figure it out.

TRAVIS: The gray ground that's been burned, is it just…

MATT: Just where the circle was.

TRAVIS: Not everything else?

MATT: No. Just the circle.

TRAVIS: I feel like we just killed FernGully.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. We did kill FernGully.

LIAM: Yeah, but if they had any good in their heart, why would they be trapping travelers of any kind?

LAURA: They weren't trapping travelers of any kind, they were trapping the lycans.

TALIESIN: Then they trapped us!

LAURA: Yeah, but then they let us out.

TALIESIN: They didn't really let us out.

SAM: Everyone was bad, including us, and we lived. That's it.

MATT: You guys begin trekking duskward again, finally getting to the outskirts of the city. As you reach the outer perimeter of the forest, you reach up and you find no barrier there. It has been dispelled, and you guys step forth into the field, hearing now as you travel further northward, duskward, the gentle sounds of rushing water begin to approach. Garmelie glances past you and goes, “Well, good news. We've reached the Gilded Run.”

TRAVIS: Oh, we're here!

MATT: “Bad news, we've reached the Gilded Run.”

LAURA: Let's sleep in the mansion tonight.

MARISHA: I'm pretty tapped out.

SAM: I would love to.

LAURA: But you can't?

SAM: I used my 7th-level spell to kill a pixie.

TRAVIS: Why is reaching the Gilded Run a bad thing?

MATT: “It's a difficult thing to pass. Those rivers are quite expedient.”

TRAVIS: Like rapids?

MATT: “Yeah.”

MARISHA: If we sleep, I can come prepared with lots of Control Water spells.

SAM: Maybe we can sleep in the treetops, where Lord Ukurat sleeps.

LAURA: Yeah, let's sleep up in the trees tonight, before we make our way into this area.

MATT: You guys head back into the Moonbrush. You ascend up into the canopy and prepare yourselves, finding an area of branches that can be cleared to give yourself a comfortable space to stay for the evening.

LAURA: You realize it's only been an hour since we slept last, but it's all nighty.

MATT: Well, travel to and from the center of the forest has taken a few hours, so it's been a while.

TALIESIN: We're tapped. We had a long day.

MARISHA: It wouldn't be that bad if I didn't get Counterspelled twice. Fucking fairies.

MATT: Hey, man. It's what they do.

TRAVIS: Must've been a cool fight.

MATT: As you guys make yourselves restful and set, you all begin to fall asleep to the distant sound of howling as it gets more and more faint. The sleep takes you to prepare for the next run of your journey, next week in Indianapolis! We'll see you guys at GenCon for the next episode as you guys approach the Gilded Run and the Shademirk itself, seemingly getting closer to the end of your journey in the Feywild. We'll see how this plays out.

TRAVIS: With werewolves in tow.

MATT: A werewolf in tow, that you know of.

TRAVIS: Not the rest of them?

LAURA: No, but Lord Big Badass is going to help us.

TRAVIS: He's going to steal our shit.

LAURA: He might try to.

SAM: We'll give him Garmelie if we have to.

MARISHA: Yeah, at the break you were talking about how badly you wanted to kill things.

LAURA: And you didn't get to do any of it!

TRAVIS: I was trying to be diplomatic, all right? I checked off the box!

MARISHA: You did, you tried.

TRAVIS: Next time, napalm.

MATT: It was an unfortunate circumstance. The wound above the eye, the lack of decent diplomacy, their fear of the spread of lycanthropy–

TRAVIS: I even gave willingly.

TALIESIN: You did. You've grown.

MARISHA: It was a good moment for Grog.

LAURA: Hey, we're going to have werewolves everywhere now, guys. We just let it out.

MARISHA: Yeah, we let the disease spread?

TRAVIS: Not yet we haven't.

MARISHA: You want to be a werewolf so bad. You're just saying that because you want to be one so bad.

MATT: Thank you so much! We'll see you guys at GenCon next Saturday at 8pm Eastern, that would be 5pm Pacific time, streaming next Saturday.

LAURA: Thank you, Backblaze!

SAM: No show Thursday!

MATT: Just the Saturday show.

MARISHA: Saturday.

MATT: So guys, have a good night, rest well, and we'll see you next week. 

ANNOUNCER: Hi, guys! Let's give it up for Claudia for putting almost this whole thing together. So really quick, I just wanted to say very special thanks to you guys from me and Felicia. Doing these kind of events where we have this kind of community has been the number-one goal from Geek and Sundry. So again, thank you guys so much for coming. We're excited to have you; we're excited to keep doing this. So yeah, you're awesome.

(cheering)

ANNOUNCER: All right, let's get down to it. First up, the man with the grog. Travis, come on out!

(cheering and chanting “Grog”)

ANNOUNCER: We got six more people, Travis. Come on. Fresh off the plane from New York City: Ashley Johnson!

(cheering)

ASHLEY: Whoa! I'm a monstah!

(cheering and chanting “Monster”)

ANNOUNCER: Next up is Travis's better half: Laura Bailey!

(cheering and chanting “Vex”)

LAURA: This is amazing! What?!

ANNOUNCER: Your favorite druid: Marisha Ray!

(cheering and chanting “Keyleth”)

MARISHA: What?!

ANNOUNCER: And give it up for Taliesin!

(cheering and chanting “Percy”)

ANNOUNCER: And last but not least: Sam Riegel!

(cheering and chanting “Scanlan”)

ANNOUNCER: All right, the man who brings it all to life with his amazing imagination: Matthew Mercer!

(cheering and chanting “DM”)

LAURA: Should we sit?

MATT: Well, first and foremost, guys, I want to thank all of you for being here tonight, for what is already the craziest night of my life in a long time. And we haven't even started, really, which is nuts. I want to give a big thanks to the Dungeons and Dragons team and Wizards of the Coast for gifting us an awesome series of gift bundles that we'll be able to give out to some of you lucky winners here in the audience and some of you lucky folks at home, as well. There'll be information for that throughout the chat as those events arrive. And also, in that same vein, thank you to them for helping me and Chris come together and help make the event of Force Grey: Giant Hunters, a new series we've been working on, recently coming out.

(cheering)

MATT: We have four episodes already out for that, if you haven't seen it yet. The fifth one comes out this week on Monday on Nerdist. And this will be introducing Brian Posehn's character; he'll finally be joining the campaign for that, and some crazy shit goes down, so don't miss it. Yeah, and I think we have one other cool announcement, if you guys want to take this one.

ANNOUNCER: Yeah, so we're really excited that this is Chris Pramas, from amazing Green Ronin, who did the Titansgrave book and series. And we're excited; that's been a labor of love for a long time, but we're able to announce that we will have a Critical Role campaign book coming out.

(cheering)

ANNOUNCER: So Chris, you want to tell them about it?

CHRIS: Hey! Try to get the energy up, people. This is exciting. Hey, I'm Chris Pramas. I'm the president of Green Ronin Publishing. You may know me from such things as season one of Tabletop and Titansgrave. And yeah, we're going to be publishing Critical Role RPG books. They'll be for 5th edition rules, and the awesomest part is that Matt is going to write them.

(cheering)

ANNOUNCER: So you can look for that Q1 2017?

CHRIS: Spring?

ANNOUNCER: Spring 2017. All right, well, I think that's it, so let's get started. Enjoy the show, everyone!

(cheering)

MATT: So that's interesting. Yeah, as if I didn't have enough free time already, now I'm putting that together. But yeah, the first book is going to be a Tal'Dorei campaign setting, specifically within Exandria. And if that does well, hopefully we'll be able to extend that to other continents, like Issylra with Othanzia and Vasselheim, maybe Marquet and Wildemount; we shall see. But the first book I'm really excited about. It's a labor of love, and when that does come out next year, I hope you guys get a chance to enjoy that, so yay.

(cheering)

MATT: So. As we've finished our announcements, I think it's time we go ahead and dive into our fantastical journey of Vox Machina in tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

(cheering)

MATT: All right, enough of that. Bringing us into tonight's game of Critical Role. The last time we saw them, the group of adventurers Vox Machina had found themselves in the Feywild, intent on discovering another one of the Vestiges of Divergence, one of the many artifacts that they hope will aid them in their struggle against Thordak, the Cinder King, and the rest of the Chroma Conclave. Defeating two of the members, three still remain, Thordak being the seeming powerhouse head of that troop. So now, deep in the Feywild, a crazy alternate dimension in which fey creatures rule a landscape where up is down and everything is topsy-turvy and nothing is what it seems, they've made their way through the Moonbrush, parlayed with a group of lycanthropes– werewolves, werebears, weretigers– and a group of pixies and made a choice, the pixies now scattered and stapled to a number of trees in the forest. The leader of their troop, an extremely large, powerful werewolf lord named Ukurat, has pledged his aid to some degree in the near future, should you need it as you travel duskward past the Gilded Run, eventually to the source of where apparently this bow Fenthras exists in the Shademirk Bog. And now, we pick off where we last left off. The rest of you, after resting in the treetops on the outskirts of the duskward side of the Moonbrush, you've come to consciousness, gathered your things, escaped the forest, and headed northward, just beginning to see the cresting edge of the tangled river mass of the Gilded Run. And beyond that, the dark, ominous shadow: the Shademirk Bog. So before you guys press anywhere forward, is there any preparation you want to take on your adventure?

LAURA: Straight-up prep? Oh jeez.

MATT: You're about to travel forward. What do you want to do?

SAM: Can you hear us? Yes? Are there any potion stores nearby?

(laughter)

MATT: Roll an investigation check. No.

SAM: Ooh, 22.

MATT: Oh! You strongly recall information that inform you that the last bastion of true civilization is long past you, south of where you originally came from.

SAM: Well, then I will take a moment to limber up for the day. Stretch up. Yeah, just stretch up. Active squats.

TRAVIS: Can I ask a question? Since I was obviously out of commission with the whole last fight that happened–

LAURA: Your own fault, Grog!

TRAVIS: It's not! I was being a politician. Is anybody hurt? Do we need to heal anybody before we go? Did these fireflies mess with any of you?

TALIESIN: I think everyone's mostly fine.

MARISHA: I think you were the only one who got the shitty end of that deal.

TRAVIS: That's fucked up.

SAM: I will say that Vax looks a little weird.

LAURA: Vax is just strange.

MATT: Vax turns to you and goes, “Yeah, I usually feel a bit that way. Quiet.” As you guys are preparing for the morning, there's a strange sound like a simmering, high-pitched whine. Two or three times, you see these sudden bright flashes of light in your vicinity. And there's a burst of white light, as out stepping from it, you see the somewhat-corporeal, divine energy-based form of Pike Trickfoot.

(cheering)

LAURA: Oh my god!

ASHLEY: I'm back.

SAM: No! You are not supposed to trust anything in the Feywild.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I swear it's me!

SAM: There's only one way to find out. I run up and I kiss her.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: That was a little fast, I think.

SAM: It's her.

MATT: Garmelie, at this point, watching this whole circumstance, walks up to you and goes, “It's good to see you again. I don't know where you went away last time, but I hope you enjoyed the last sketch I did. If you need any more, let me know. I got plenty of paper.”

ASHLEY: Okay. What was that? Who were you?

MATT: You look down and see the small faun who you previously had commissioned to draw–

ASHLEY: Yes. I really love that piece that you did.

MATT: “Well, thank you kindly.”

ASHLEY: You're so welcome.

MATT: “Let me know. Your form's closer to mine, so it's easy for me to get a full view.”

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Whoa.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: That's okay.

TRAVIS: Snap. So are we going across the river, then?

MARISHA: Wait, there's a river?

MATT: Make a perception check!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Really? Okay.

MATT: First roll of the night.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MARISHA: It's okay. 18.

MATT: 18, okay. Glancing ahead of you, you see the hint of the peak of an ominous mountain range slowly growing in the distance. At the base of that, you see a treacherous weave of powerful rivers rushing past, and around the exterior of the Shademirk Bog, these large heavy trenches of water jamming and folding into each other. You've heard of the Gilded Run, and you've seen a few stationary rivers in the past, but this is a cluster of perpetually rushing rapids that fill a rather sizeable period of the land surrounding the actual Shademirk Bog. And you can see just past it, the edge of the bog itself, these very dark, glistening, almost black oil-caked tree canopies that vanish into shadow beneath. But that's a couple of miles off.

TRAVIS: But the rapids are right there?

MATT: You can see them maybe half a mile in front of you. And you can see the spray occasionally shooting off some of the rocks, and the shore of the river just barely shows the speed of the water passing by.

LAURA: It's definitely not something we can wade across, I'm assuming.

SAM: We could fashion a crude canoe and go down it.

MARISHA: Or I could part the sea. I'm going to take my staff, and I want to feel how deep it is.

MATT: Okay, so you decide to walk the half-mile to make it to the river?

MARISHA: I thought we were there. It's a lot going on.

SAM: Let's walk the half-mile. It's a half-mile!

MARISHA: And it looks like a long river?

MATT: It's a series of long rivers that completely wrap around the Shademirk. One side of it seems to be vanishing into the Green Sea, which you could barely see to the far seaward side of you, and it curves around the outside of the Shademirk and vanishes into the horizon.

SAM: It's a river.

LAURA: It's a big river.

TALIESIN: It looks like a river, at the very least. Don't trust anything in the Feywild!

LAURA: Can I perception and see if there are any sort of creatures that are visible?

MATT: Do you want to get close to it first? You have a jaunty jog on your way towards the Gilded Run. A very short time passes before you begin to actually hear the waters in the distance. And as you begin to approach, about a hundred feet from the edge of the first stripe of river, and you can see some are tighter together, some are only a few feet between the rivers, some merge into even thicker roaring rapids. They're all traveling from the seaward side to the tangleward side. In layman's terms: west to east.

TALIESIN: How far in does it take to cross all of these little rivers?

MATT: The rivers change in width. The smallest one you can see is maybe ten feet across. Some of them swell to upwards of 30, 40 feet, depending at which point you come across it.

TALIESIN: What's the speed and roughness of the ten-foot?

MATT: They're all pretty matching in speed, and they're pretty hefty. You can see there are occasional rocks in the edges of water that are just spraying, causing the water to smash into the side and split off around it. There's nothing visible in the water drifting, through. Most of it is destroyed in the process of crashing against the rocks in the sides of the bank.

TALIESIN: Let's find a nice mix of not-too-wide and not-too-rapidy. Not too fast.

SAM: And do what?

TALIESIN: And start thinking of a way across it and making sure that it's not magical or strange.

ASHLEY: Could we fly?

LAURA: I can.

ASHLEY: You can.

LAURA: Brother, do you want to scout up ahead? Maybe fly up above the river and see down into the oily land? Both of us.

MATT: “Fine, I'll go ahead and give it a look, I suppose. Although you can fly any time you want, if you wish.”

LAURA: Yes, I can. And I do. I pick my broom up.

MATT: He seemingly ducks down into the grasses that you guys are standing in and vanishes, barely giving a small path as he disappears.

LAURA: I float above him on the broom.

MATT: Occasionally, you see him glance up and loudly grumble.

LAURA: You are so hidden right now. I can barely even see you. So hidden.

MATT: “I appreciate the backup, sister.” And he keeps continuing forward. As you get to the edge of the water itself, he looks inside. It's pretty clear, the water, as you can see the bottom of it right there. You can see a deep-set blanket of greenish-brown algae-type plant life that cakes the bottom of the river floor, the occasional stone protruding from it and everything is growing and pushed around it. He releases his raven wings from his armor, which shoot out in a large 15-foot wingspan on each side. He jumps in the air, makes his way over the first short river, and lands on the other side.

LAURA: Oh, okay. I fly up and I stay above him. I don't want to land on the ground.

MATT: Okay. Glance over. His wings fold behind him and he's like, “Was it so hard, sister? Really?”

LAURA: You wasted your entire hour of flying for that?

(laughter and applause)

MATT: (sighs)

LAURA: Oh, I got a Vax sigh. I like it.

MATT: He scoots underneath your broom, as you're hovering on, and one of his wings catches the edge of it, flicks, and then tries to knock you off your broom. Make a quick strength check.

LAURA: A what check?

MATT: Strength, my dear.

LAURA: Oh, I got a natural one.

(laughter)

LAURA: If you just killed me–

MATT: As the edge of his wings smack the back side of the broom, it spins out from under you, and for a moment, you grasp the edge of the front of the broom, and it slips from your fingers. You flick off, tumble to ground about ten feet. Not too far. You take one point of damage from the impact; nothing huge. But as you roll to the side, your broom scatters across the stones and dips partially into the river, which begins carrying it slowly–

LAURA: No! And I crawl over and grab it.

MATT: Okay. You grab it and pull it out. As you turn back over, your brother's sitting there with his arms crossed, his wings still folded, smiling.

LAURA: I swing around and hit him with the broom.

MATT: Make an attack roll. This is not with your bow, by the way. This is just adding your proficiency bonus. You're not even proficient. This is an improvised weapon, so you have disadvantage. Go ahead and roll again.

LAURA: Disadvantage? Aw, come on. That was so much better than the first one.

MATT: You're not proficient, really, in attacking with brooms.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13? With but an instant of reaction time, it passes a good solid foot and a half in front of his face. His wings furl. A couple of feathers dangle down, and he turns around and decides to hop over the next bit of the river.

LAURA: I hate you sometimes.

MATT: “I know, sister.” As he takes off.

LAURA: All right, I get on my broom and fly after him, like a loser.

MATT: Any of you guys also doing anything, or are you just watching them scouting ahead?

TRAVIS: We're just watching them fly around.

MATT: As you scoot up to catch up to your brother, he's probably a good 15 feet ahead of you–

LAURA: Yay, we're back.

ASHLEY: That was such a busy desktop.

MATT: As you hop up after him, you notice his wings go into a dive, and he ends up curving downward at an alarming rate, diving right into the river.

LAURA: Can I float down and try to grab him?

MATT: I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

LAURA: A wisdom saving throw? Shit, balls, mother– that's bad: nine.

MATT: As soon as you see your brother dive into the water, you begin to coast downward. As you do, there's an impulse in your head that begins pushing and steering the broom lower, lower. And even in the back of your head, you sense this is bad; we're going far too steep. It's like you're outside of your physical body. The control has alleviated itself, and your body forces you to splash into the river, as well, both of you guys submerging yourself in the raging rapids. You guys see this in the distance, with a splash of two impacts on the riverside.

TRAVIS: Did we tell them to go fishing?

MARISHA: I don't think we did.

LAURA: Can we try to get out? Can we try to get out of the water?

MARISHA: Okay, let's go save our friends.

MATT: There is a ten-foot river for you guys to traverse first, before you get to them. Each of you who are trying to leap across, make an athletics check.

MARISHA: I didn't say I was trying to leap across.

MATT: I said anyone who wants to try.

TRAVIS: You want to hop on the–

(laughter)

SAM: I don't follow. I'll jump on. All right, Grog's got two gnomes on his back.

MATT: Grog's got two gnomes on his back. Of course he does; that's perfect.

LAURA: Help. Right here. Are we underwater, or are we on top of the water? We're just dying.

MATT: Two gnomes on Grog's back. You grab both of them, do a quick sprint and leap, as heavy as you can. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: I rolled a 25.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. That's way better.

MATT: Much like how Hulk escapes a fray, you watch as Grog bounds into the air in a large arc, slamming into the other side, causing the stones on the outskirts of the riverbed to crack beneath him. You stand back up, proud of yourself. Pike and Scanlan, you're a little jostled from the impact.

ASHLEY: That was so fun.

TRAVIS: I know, right?

SAM: I think I landed on my keys!

TALIESIN: And I rolled a nine.

MATT: You smile as you hear a splash behind you. Percival getting right up to the edge and leaping, as his foot catches the stone and goes right into the smaller rapid, being carried, as well. Keyleth?

MARISHA: The people who are in the water, are they being dragged under? We can just not see them anymore?

MATT: If you take a moment to watch–

MARISHA: Yeah, Percy? Percy?

TALIESIN: I think I'm fine. I'm just wet.

SAM: Is he being carried away?

MATT: The three who've been pulled under the river– that includes you, Vex'ahlia, Vax'ildan, and Percy– I need you to make a constitution check.

LAURA: Constitution?!

MARISHA: Why does everything here hate us?

LAURA: Ugh! Oh Jesus! Six.

TRAVIS: You're going to die live.

TALIESIN: Ten.

LAURA: Why am I rolling so bad right now?

MATT: 14. Okay, you manage to pull yourself up to the surface and you almost get to the point of actually getting some air, and a force pulls you back under.

MARISHA: Percy! Aw.

(laughter)

MATT: However, Percy, you do maintain the breath in your lungs. You and your brother both (coughs) give away a bulk of the air, and you feel yourself in the beginning spasms of drowning.

LAURA: Can I cast Grasping Vine from the side of the river and try to catch myself?

MATT: You know what? Yes, you can. In the aspects of this sequence though, it is a difficult job to cast this. Is it a concentration check or not?

LAURA: I don't know!

MARISHA: Grasping Vine is a bonus action, yo!

MATT: But is it a concentration spell? That is the difference.

LAURA: I don't have my card because we're traveling.

SAM: Matt, how far are they from me?

MATT: From you guys out there, they're maybe 25 feet from you.

MARISHA: Wait. No, it is. Sorry.

MATT: That's all right. So I need you to roll another constitution check, if you could.

TRAVIS: Roll better.

LAURA: I'm scared of all my dice.

TRAVIS: It's because you have a hundred of them.

LAURA: No, that's good! 19.

MATT: Okay, so yes. As the rapids are rushing by, you open your eyes, and the sting of the very high-powered water hitting your eyeballs causes you to have a hard time even seeing what's up and down. As you glance up to where the little bit of light from the ever-dusk sky of the Feywild pulls your attention, you put your hand out, and using that burst of ranger magical energy, you watch as the undergrowth of the river itself stretch out and form this strange, slimy mass of vine that wraps around you and yanks you out of the water surface, slamming onto the ground just outside of the river.

(applause)

LAURA: That's my broom that I'm holding up in my hand right now.

MARISHA: So the river doesn't hate magic?

LAURA: I don't know.

MARISHA: All right.

LAURA: Where's my brother? Where's Vax?

MARISHA: I'm going to cast Control Water. Where do I see Percy? Is Percy and Vax together?

MATT: No, Vax is in the next river over. Percy is about maybe 20 feet from you, but is quickly being rushed down the river.

MARISHA: Vax is? Or Percy?

MATT: Percy.

MARISHA: Okay, so first, I'm going to Control Water. I'm going to stop the flow of current and see if I can get it to burp out Percy.

MATT: Okay. Just pat it.

MARISHA: I'm going to burp the river.

MATT: (shushing) It's okay, Gilded Run. It's okay. All right, perfect. So you see this influx and see Vex get thrown out of the river. You see Percy's hand get pulled back under as the river pulls him along at a very fast speed. You concentrate, and as you put your fingers forward, you see the rapid river begin to slow down at a certain point, and it's almost like an invisible dam gets held up as the waters continue to flow out and carry him a little bit further. It slowly descends to leave him on an empty bank of water as the rest of it slowly seeps to a much lower level. You catch your breath, Percy. However, I need you to make a wisdom check, as this is a very powerful, magically-enforced river, and it's currently combating the strength of your spell. This is Keyleth. She's making a wisdom check.

MARISHA: No, okay. Yeah. Wait, what? Just a straight wisdom?

LAURA: Oh no!

(laughter)

MARISHA: I just spent a lot of money on these dice today!

SAM: Wait. Hold on. I've got this. Quick, everyone. What's that over there? There.

MARISHA: Oh, a 15.

LAURA: Was it a one?

MARISHA: I rolled a one.

TRAVIS: You did?

TALIESIN: Wow.

MATT: All right, feeling confident in your druidic ways, but unfortunately not yet undergone the formal training of the water Ashari, the actual forceful wave of the river begins to push back your control over that being, and then cascades down, picking Percy, once again, back up an additional 30 feet down the stream. You are at the surface at the moment, though. You are not considered drowning. You're not drowning. Your brother, not doing so hot.

LAURA: Can I send the vine to him?

MATT: Well, before we get to that, the three of you guys now get to act.

SAM: I'm going to step forward and inspire myself.

(cheering)

SAM: I sing to myself: (singing) Scanlan Shorthalt. I'm a gnome. My name is Scanlan Shorthalt. I'm a gnome. There's a million chicks I haven't boned, but just you wait–

ALL: (singing) Just you wait.

(cheering)

MATT: Fine, you go and take your inspiration die.

SAM: And then I will cast Bigby's Hand. Bigby's Hand! Because we're in a symphony hall. And I'm going to grab Vax and toss him out of the river.

MATT: Okay, taking Bigby's Hand. I need you to make a strength check for Bigby's Hand, if you could.

SAM: What does he get? What does Bigby get? I'm going. It's a different guy. He's a whole guy, who's not quite as handsome as me.

MATT: Add a plus eight to it.

SAM: Okay. 25.

MATT: 25. You watch as Bigby's Hand plunges into the river itself, vanishes for a few moments, and then like a reverse cannonball out of the water, coming curving around and at an incredible speed, looks like it's about to spike Vax onto the water's edge before slowing down and limply dropping him on the edge of the bank front.

SAM: I give him a little pat on the head.

MATT: Which is good, because the pat actually forces the water out of his lungs. (coughing and panting) “No flight.”

MARISHA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MARISHA: Grab Percy.

TRAVIS: Yes, me?

MARISHA: Grab Percy.

TRAVIS: I take the Alchemy Jug, and I turn it upside down like diving bell, and I put it over my head.

(cheering and applause)

TRAVIS: I take the Chain of Returning, and I wrap it around my waist. And I hand the other end to Pike because she's got the ogre gauntlets. And I wade into the river to go get Percy.

(cheering)

MATT: Okay, I'll say it is your turn, because he move quite a bit down the river, but you have a pretty high movement rate as a barbarian, so you tie the chain around yourself at your full movement speed, and you get to the very edge of the bank and begin to wade in just as you pull the jar over your head. And that's going to be the end of your action there. Pike, you're holding him at the edge. I need you to make a strength check, if you could.

ASHLEY: I got you, buddy.

TRAVIS: Come on, Monstah.

ASHLEY: Oh wait. Hold on. Where did it go? I'm sorry, I forgot how to play.

MATT: I believe it's a plus four.

ASHLEY: 18?

MATT: 18. Without an issue, you watch as this giant anchor of a man is being held solid by this tiny rock of a gnomish cleric.

ASHLEY: Yes!

(cheering)

ASHLEY: Go get him, Grog!

TRAVIS: (muffled) Okay.

MATT: You watch as her teeth bite down, and her tongue sticks out the edge as she digs her feet into the bottom of the river rock. Percy, you see a dark form in the river as you're rushing past. I need you to make a perception check with disadvantage, as you're being drawn underwater.

TALIESIN: Perception check with disadvantage?

MATT: This is a perception check with disadvantage.

TALIESIN: That's not that bad. Where's my perception? There it is: 14.

MATT: 14, okay. Just as you see this strange dark form appear out of the way, you instinctively sweep your hand out, and you smack and catch the edge of Grog's pants.

SAM: He has pants?

(laughter)

MATT: At the hip. And you catch it. Grog, you see the hand emerge, and you catch the edge of it and pull him up out of the river. He's now out. Caught his breath; he's no longer beneath the surface. You guys are still being pulled, now, by the water. Your feet are beginning to fall out from under you as the rocks that are holding you up are being pulled along by the force of the river. It seems the longer you're in the river, the stronger it's getting.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. Pike! Pull! I got him!

MATT: I need you to roll another strength check, Pike, as you pull them in. There is a little more weight on there, so the DC's going to be a little higher. Go ahead and roll.

TRAVIS: 21.

SAM: Can I quickly inspire her?

MATT: If you want to, yeah.

SAM: Yes. I turn to her and I sing: (singing) Repairing up your heart when she heals you! And when you are a bard, you feel it, too! And no matter what you do, she heals the pain, and she's pretty, too!

TRAVIS: I love you for doing *NSYNC.

MARISHA: Ten-sider!

LAURA: She did a ten-sider.

MATT: She's taking it now, so roll a strength check and add.

ASHLEY: Oh, it's the same. Or is that this way?

TRAVIS: That's a nine.

LAURA: That's good. That's better!

ASHLEY: 15?

SAM: With my dice?

ASHLEY: Yes. I originally rolled a two.

MATT: Even with the fantastic rhymes of Scanlan's voice ringing in your ears, and you're holding tight, you feel your heels begin to scrape as the river rush is pulling you now towards the river. Grog and Percy, you feel yourselves being brought deeper into the center of the river.

MARISHA: Can I try again with the current? It's a concentration spell up to ten minutes.

MATT: Yeah, you do. So coming back to Keyleth, at this point.

MARISHA: Even the water's angry! (screams)

MATT: Keyleth, I'd like you to make another wisdom check, if you could.

TRAVIS: Roll good!

MARISHA: Okay, that's better. Straight wisdom? A saving throw or just a check?

MATT: Just a check.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16. That's better. As you guys are being swept away, you feel the current begin to subside slowly, and Pike, once again, you get your ankles dug in. You begin to pull on this, and between the two of you and the concentration of Keyleth, you manage to wrestle Grog and Percy's forms out of the river onto the bank. Now you guys are between the two.

(cheering)

SAM: You guys, we defeated a creek.

TALIESIN: We didn't actually even defeat it.

MARISHA: No, we haven't even gotten started. There's like 50 more creeks in front of us.

LAURA: Me and Vax are on one side, and everyone else is on the other, then?

MATT: Yes. There are a couple of small trees that are planted or grown up between the river banks, and you can still hear the rapids rushing past.

SAM: How many more rivers would we have to cross?

MATT: Looking ahead of you, there's probably 12.

TRAVIS: Let's just go home. Fuck it.

TALIESIN: That was very clever with the pot, by the way.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right? I figured if anything was going to hit me in the head, it would hit the jug first.

TALIESIN: That was less clever, but still very impressive. What if we were to throw your chain, or if we could throw the rope across the river?

LAURA: Actually, I'm going to use my earring so I don't have to shout.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, that's better.

LAURA: I feel like when I was crossing the river, I wanted to kill myself. And I'm afraid that anybody else crossing the river–

TALIESIN: No, Vax has already crossed. We're not going to feel the angst coming off of him.

MATT: The experience, when you were trying to cross over, was reminiscent of that urge to jump whenever you're near the edge. That weird, very base impulse whenever you get to a point of danger that says, do it! It's like that being triggered and preyed upon.

MARISHA: It's a river of impulses? Such an allegory for so many things.

TALIESIN: Here's a thought. We take the rope, we tie ourselves to it, we toss it over to the two of you, we start using it to wade, you help pull us over. Everybody would have to be terrible for everything to go. Everybody will be fighting together to get across.

ASHLEY: We can attach the rope to the Immovable Rod. Just put it in the ground.

LAURA: I think I have it. I thought Grog had it, but I think I might have picked it up after.

TALIESIN: As long as we're tied together, we can only go so far. It'll be like mountain climbing.

SAM: But that just gets us across one, right?

TALIESIN: I think they're across two.

TRAVIS: How wide's the second river between us and Vax?

MATT: It would take you guys about 20 feet across.

TALIESIN: That's good. 20 feet across.

SAM: No, there's ten more rivers!

LAURA: There's so many rivers!

SAM: Can we become mist form? Are our minds affected when we're mist form?

TALIESIN: Yes. I'm sure.

LAURA: Is it? Are we?

MARISHA: I didn't learn mist form today.

TRAVIS: Fucking hell.

ASHLEY: What if we made a boat and then floated down the river?

TRAVIS: They're rapids.

ASHLEY: That sounds like a terrible idea, by the look of his face.

MARISHA: Does it look like all the rivers are connected?

MATT: It looks like some of them swell between each other and then split off again. Some are solitary, from your current position that you can see, but you only have what's immediately near you to really see. Since some of these are hills, and it carves into part of these hills, you don't have a complete view of how they intertwine and merge beyond the immediate hillsides.

LAURA: Hey, Garmelie!

SAM: Yeah, where's he?

MATT: He's back on the other side.

LAURA: Hi!

MATT: “Some help, please?”

LAURA: Have you heard any stories about how people crossed these damn rivers before?

MATT: “I told you I've heard about this land. I haven't actually been here.”

LAURA: I know! So tell me what you've heard!

MATT: “It's dangerous, and it keeps the Shademirk from spreading!”

LAURA: Cool.

TRAVIS: Garmelie! Hop in the river!

MATT: “No!”

SAM: Has my minute of Hand worn off yet?

MATT: I'd say it's getting towards the end.

SAM: All right. I'm going to take Garmelie and throw him across as many rivers as I can.

(cheering)

MATT: Make a strength check.

SAM: 25 again.

MATT: Being a small and relatively light-weight fey creature, but also smug in a standing position after proclaiming his negative approach to Grog's idea, he doesn't quite notice the spiraling purple hand that swings up from behind, grasping him and lifting him into the air with an incredible speed. All you hear is the distant (squeal) as the hand full-on fastball special chucks him. Arcing overhead. (distant scream, impact) A little plume of dust.

LAURA: Did he make it? How far did he get?

MATT: He made it past five of them.

(applause)

MATT: And also suffered 22 points of damage. There's a long, awkward pause as you see no movement.

SAM: Oh god. I think I just killed him.

LAURA: Scanlan, you're such a dick!

TALIESIN: That was a little harsh.

MATT: Which gets more and more awkward the longer it goes by, until eventually you see a shift and this small form rise up, raises a thumb… which quickly transitions into a middle finger.

(cheering)

MARISHA: He's fine!

SAM: He's doing great.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, Keyleth, if I had magic, I would freeze all the water, so go ahead and do that.

MARISHA: If Bigby's Hand had about ten seconds left, I've got about nine minutes left on this Control Water spell. Why don't we try and move as fast as possible along with the chain and maybe the Immovable Rod. Let's go. You guys go first. And I'm going to try and halt the flow.

MATT: Make a wisdom check, if you could.

TRAVIS: Come on, you stupid opal dice!

LAURA: Is that a natural 20?

MARISHA: No, it's another fucking one! Useless!

LAURA: Put it away, Keyleth. Put it away for the rest of the night.

MARISHA: I spent so much money on these!

TRAVIS: You've got to retire that bitch.

MATT: No! They just haven't been charged properly. (cackles)

LAURA: Put it in its dice jail.

TALIESIN: See? Better.

MARISHA: Percy! Don't touch my dice, Percy!

MATT: So as you guys begin to prepare your attempt to cross the river, Keyleth concentrates. The river stalls for a moment, and then pushes past, seemingly unaffected. Mind you, the spell does seem to have an effect when you're having a better time concentrating, but it is a magical force versus a magical force, and you can see it actually angrily swells against the resistance. That's where the actual tension comes from. There is something living, like an entity that these rivers seem to almost mingle as.

TRAVIS: Are there a bunch of trees?

MATT: There are a few sporadic trees scattered around, yes.

TRAVIS: How tall are they?

MATT: They're not that tall. Some are maybe 15, 20 feet up. These trees specifically are a little more marsh-based. They're not quite swamp-based trees, but that's as tall as they get.

TRAVIS: And the river's 20 feet wide, right?

MATT: No, these are maybe five feet wide.

LAURA: Oh. Five feet. We could jump across them?

MATT: Oh, the rivers. Sorry. The trees are five feet wide. I misunderstood. Yes, the actual rivers are between ten to 20 feet.

LAURA: Do you have Tree Stride?

MARISHA: I do, but I can only cast that on myself.

LAURA: I thought we could all use it, always?

MARISHA: We can use mist form. Sorry. There's Teleport Via Plants, which I did not bring today.

TRAVIS: What did you bring today?

MARISHA: I brought Control Water, Grog!

SAM: Wait. The total distance from us to the end of the 12th river is how far?

MATT: Probably close to 150 feet?

TALIESIN: We can do that in five minutes.

SAM: So I can make it with Pike super fast.

LAURA: How?

MARISHA: Dimension Door.

SAM: Yeah. But the rest of you are fucked.

LAURA: No! This is really good! This is good, because with the Immovable Rod–

SAM: I can set it, forget it. Set it and forget it.

LAURA: And then tie maybe the endless rope to it. And then you teleport back to the other side.

TRAVIS: How's that going to work?

LAURA: I don't know.

ASHLEY: Wait. If we Dimension Door, what if you turn into an animal to fly, and then you have a broom, and someone can ride on your broom?

MARISHA: I could potentially turn us into animals that can swim, which is why I was wondering if the rivers were connected. Maybe we can jump like salmon, going upstream?

SAM: Don't tell Trinket!

LAURA: Trinket is safe in this necklace right now.

TRAVIS: Can you raise earth? Can you make a dam?

MARISHA: I can, and I did bring Move Earth, as well as Wall of Stone. To be totally honest, I am terrified of messing with the ground. I'm afraid if I move the earth, it will eat me. It will split open and swallow me. I could try it.

LAURA: Wait, did I hear right that these rivers are alive? What did I hear?

MARISHA: They're magical rivers.

TRAVIS: I'm going to chop down a tree.

LAURA: You're going to chop down a tree? Grog, Keyleth picked a flower and the entire world ended.

TRAVIS: We are getting nowhere, super fast.

TALIESIN: Easy plan. Easy peasy. Teleport with the Immovable Rod. You shoot one end of the rope to him.

LAURA: Oh, why didn't I think of that?

TALIESIN: Everything's easy peasy.

MARISHA: Why didn't we think of that?

SAM: Okay. Give me the rod. You take the eternal string or whatever it's called.

LAURA: I have the eternal string, and I have the rod.

TRAVIS: Can I walk over to a tree just in case their plan fails? I want to start chopping.

MATT: You go up to one of the nearby trees at the edge, and you can see across the way, it looks like there's part of a crumpled stone corner, some long dilapidated ruin. You can see what looks to be one dried tree log that has fallen over and rotting on the other side. But there is one tree right on the edge of the bank that you guys are on that leads across this next river that is pretty solid looking. Maybe four feet in thickness there and 25 feet.

LAURA: Don't do it, Grog! Do not do it yet!

TRAVIS: I hope your stupid plan works!

MARISHA: Hey, Grog. Remember when we almost died because I picked a flower? Just throwing it out there.

TRAVIS: I'm super bored, so do your plan.

LAURA: I'm going to start tying the rope to an arrow.

MATT: You're tying the rope to an arrow. Okay. You have, at this point, a good seven minutes left.

MARISHA: Of the Control Water? All right. Let's do this.

LAURA: All right. Are you going to teleport, and then we're going to try to do that?

SAM: Sure, let's do it.

LAURA: So you teleport first. I'll shoot the arrow, see if I can actually get it to stick over there, and then you can do the…

SAM: Okay. Pike, you with me? Hand in hand?

ASHLEY: Hand in hand.

SAM: Here we go. I Dimension Door us across the river, if it works.

MATT: Okay. As you guys grasp hands, both of them vanish in a swirl of purplish-pink smoke. You see, simultaneously, across all the banks, right at the edge of the Shademirk, this little burst of energy. You guys land on the ground immediately, your feet sinking about three inches into this black sludge-like tar material. Already, you can smell the outskirts of the Shademirk. It's a very sulfurous decay smell that permeates the ground by you, and you can see it seeping into the river like a slow-moving morass of syrup, and the water carries it away upstream, like an angry force of cleaning. It's a little sludgy where you stand, but you guys are across.

SAM: All right. Hey! Shoot an arrow at me!

LAURA: All right, I shoot an arrow! Not directly at him, but pretty close to him.

SAM: That's a long shot.

LAURA: I have a really long– I'm just going to shoot a couple arrows just to be sure.

SAM: I instinctively cover my neck.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. What did you roll?

LAURA: A five.

MATT: Okay, just making sure. Because ones are always fun for situations like this. All right. You fire the arrow. It goes a little wide while you're aiming in the proximity of Scanlan and arc off and staples to one of the outside trees, sticking in it. The rope goes lax and begins to be carried in the water, and you can see the tension as the river itself seems to be trying to pull the rope underneath the rapids.

LAURA: I hold the other side of the rope.

MATT: Okay, you begin pulling it up, and it's hard to pull up. The actual river is almost pulling the rope under itself.

TALIESIN: I grab it, too.

MATT: All right. I need both of you guys to make strength checks together.

MARISHA: Can I try and stop the current once again?

MATT: What's the range on Control Water?

MARISHA: 300 feet.

MATT: Yeah you can do that.

MARISHA: Okay. Calm, waters, calm.

LAURA: And hook it to the Immovable Rod there.

SAM: Oh yeah! I forgot that whole part of the plan.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: What are you doing?

ASHLEY: No!

LAURA: You can't use it anymore. You're not allowed to use that dice anymore.

TRAVIS: Just throw it offstage. Just throw it.

MARISHA: I am not giving you all that dice!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Say it. What was it?

MATT: I'm assuming it's a low roll.

MARISHA: It's a fucking one! For the third time in a row!

MATT: All right, so what did you guys roll for your strength checks?

LAURA: Oh, for strength checks I rolled…

MATT: As there has been no druidic aid, unfortunately, in this particular moment.

SAM: Pike, do you know any sailor's knots?

ASHLEY: I sure do!

SAM: Can you tie a sailor knot around this Immovable Rod?

ASHLEY: I sure can!

SAM: Which one?

ASHLEY: The swirley-whirley.

(laughter)

MATT: As the two of you rush over the 30 feet to the tree that the rope is stapled to right now, it's taut and you can see it's starting to break the arrow as the strength of the rope being pulled into the river.

LAURA: Percy, what did you roll for strength?

TALIESIN: Oh, that's good. I rolled a ten. I'm not that strong!

LAURA: We are so weak!

ASHLEY: We are doing so great!

MATT: Between the two of you guys, you manage to slowly pull it out of most of the rapids. It's still being dragged by one. It takes you another minute or so, but you manage to get the rope entirely taut against the edge of the arrow. Pike, you catch the actual rope on the other side before the arrow snaps and carries it back by the strength of their pull. So you take it and you make a little knot. Tie it strong from your experience as a sailor to the Immovable Rod, and it is solid and in place.

TALIESIN: So I tie the rope to myself.

LAURA: Yeah, we should each tie the rope to all of us.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Grog, you're on the end there with the rope.

TRAVIS: Nope. I'm going to cut down t his fucking tree.

LAURA: No, Grog!

TRAVIS: All right, fine. I'll help.

TALIESIN: We're going to tie a rope to you.

TRAVIS: Around me?

LAURA: Around all of us, yeah. So Keyleth, too, you get a rope, as well. You get a rope! You get a rope!

MARISHA: We all get ropes!

TALIESIN: You should be in front, and then the rest of us.

LAURA: Oh, okay, sure.

SAM: Don't forget Vax.

LAURA: And Vax, of course. Obviously, my brother, who is standing right here very stealthily.

MATT: He looks to you and his wings (whoosh). He lets them dissipate, as they're not going to be much of a help in this moment. “If I'm going to be tied to the rope, I want to be tied close to you, at least.” He shimmies over. You're all tying yourselves like a daisy chain?

LAURA: You know, like you do.

MATT: All right. Once you've all affixed it, what is the order in which you guys are affixed? I'm just curious!

TRAVIS: I'll be in the front.

LAURA: It's Grog, then Percy.

TALIESIN: Vax, Vex.

LAURA: Keyleth.

SAM: And then leave a little slack for Garmelie at the end.

LAURA: Oh, right, because we've got to pick him up on the way through.

MATT: He's in between the two of you guys right now. He's waiting.

LAURA: We're on our way to you, Garmelie. Don't worry!

MATT: “Good!” He looks over his shoulder at Scanlan and goes, “Good.” All right, you guys all begin to pull yourselves forward on the rope, taking your time to make sure that if anything bad happens, you take a moment to pause and help out your friends. I need everyone who's on the edge of that rope to make a general athletics check.

LAURA: Everybody holding on to the rope?

MATT: Everybody who's currently tied onto the rope, so not the gnomes.

LAURA: Athletics?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: 20.

MARISHA: That's acceptable.

TALIESIN: 13.

LAURA: Are we in any kind of favored terrain right now?

TALIESIN: Only for Aquaman is this favored terrain.

MATT: I'm going to say no.

LAURA: Okay, cool. 11 there, with the dice and the adding.

MATT: So that's 20. What did you get?

MARISHA: 22.

MATT: 22, okay.

ASHLEY: Making a comeback!

MATT: You guys begin to pull yourselves forward. The two half-elf twins, in their physical waif-like state, begin to find themselves being carried hard down the first, second, and third progressive rivers as you guys pull through, but you manage to make up the slack and get them back on the land each time. It slowed down your progress. You only have three more minutes on your spell.

MARISHA: Keyleth's got angry tears of frustration in the back as she's trying to control the water. Runny eyeliner, like it's 2001.

MATT: All right. You manage to make it across the next six or so rivers. You get to where Garmelie is, who's sitting there tapping his little hoof impatiently.

LAURA: Tie yourself on, there, Garmelie.

MATT: He looks up at the rope, which is basically head level. “Give me some slack!”

LAURA: (grunts)

MATT: “Thanks.” He wraps it around his midsection, ties it up, and it's uncomfortably tight because as soon as you start moving it pulls on his midsection. When it's pulled taut, because of his size, he's actually lifted up between you guys, so his feet dangle, and he's top-heavy in how it tied, so he rotates. His feet are in the air.

(cheering)

MATT: You bring yourself over to the eighth, the ninth river finally traversed. A few other scary moments. Keyleth, I want you to make a wisdom check again to see if you can aid this next length.

MARISHA: Fuck you, no. It's a 19! Total 19.

MATT: Harnessing the inspiration of frustration at your recent failures to control the elements that you've been so hoping to learn to bring to your beck and call, you look forward at what would be the third-to-last river in your progress forward, and angrily do this with your hands. You guys watch as the river, like a paper, is torn asunder, the water held at bay.

MARISHA: I'm sorry!

TALIESIN: You're great! Run!

MARISHA: Just go!

MATT: You guys run down the bank, stepping over. As you start to reach the other side of the bank, Grog, your heavy foot hits something that seems to react to the impact of your weight.

SAM: Like a thing? Like a person?

MATT: You guys make your way up the edge of the river. As you glance over the side, you see something in the mud vanish beneath.

TRAVIS: I stepped on a catfish.

ASHLEY: Let's eat it.

LAURA: Get up and out. Up and out.

MATT: As you guys all get across, the water slams back, continuing to flow with the river. Angrily, it roars and seems to almost swell up over the bank where it once was before it slowly descends back to its natural rushing rapids.

MARISHA: That's a really big catfish.

MATT: There are two more rivers now ahead of you. There's one right before you, and then the one that separates you from Scanlan and Pike.

SAM: Are they multiplying? Oh no, it's because we got them wet!

MATT: There were roughly 12 ahead of you when you asked. You guys have now traversed nine of them, ten of them, so there's only two left at this point. Keyleth.

TALIESIN: I believe in you.

MARISHA: I didn't mean to do that. I was really nervous. But it's an 18, so 25. You know what, Percy? So I'm going to talk. I'm going to be like: Look, river. I'm your friend. I don't want any tension between us. I'm just trying to make it across you, you know?

MATT: The actual near-growl of the rapids begins to slowly subside in the river before you as the water sinks down into a slower, more gentle pace. You can see it building up and backing up behind you as the river here comes to a soft, cool dip that you guys can begin to walk through as well.

MARISHA: Good river. Good boy.

TRAVIS: Can I keep an eye out for whatever I stepped on in the river?

MATT: Yeah, make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Six!

MATT: Grog, being in the front of the troupe, as the river is slowly separated for this, you step down into the mud, and you don't notice a similar shift curl up behind you as suddenly a rapid (whoosh). A set of gargantuan, long tooth-filled jaws come pouring out of the mud underneath the bank, snapping towards your large half-giant form. (evil chuckle) It has begun. That is a 22 to hit. I believe that hits your armor class.

TRAVIS: That'll hit.

MATT: All righty. Getting ready for the first real attack damage of tonight's episode.

LAURA: How come we never noticed the battle map has a river on it? Oh no!

MATT: You suffer 27 points of piercing damage.

(groaning, laughter)

MATT: You, Grog, are suddenly grappled. The jaws have latched onto your midsection and hold you. You guys look ahead as you see this form, this spray of dark grimy mud and river-bottom muck gets flung into the air. You see what looks to be a far larger than you've ever seen before crocodile-like entity has come bursting out from under the river. You see the sheer force of the impact pushes him forward and carries him onto the other side of the river, in doing so, dragging all of you behind him at a rapid pace.

TRAVIS: We're across!

MATT: Most of you go flying in an arc at the sheer force of this impact. I need you guys to make acrobatics checks to try to stop yourselves.

TRAVIS: It's not a catfish!

MARISHA: Acrobatics or athletics?

MATT: Acrobatics.

TALIESIN: That's my jam. 27.

MARISHA: 15.

LAURA: 28.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: All right, and your brother does well. Of course he does. You guys all manage to catch yourselves right now, still attached by the rope as you now see this heaping 15- to 20-foot-long giant barrel of muscle, green scaled skin, but what looks to be hundreds of tiny roots that spread from the center of its midsection, reaching into the ground. As it begins to move forward, it's actually rooting and uprooting itself as it moves. You can see the moisture and the life force of the land is pulsing into its form as it holds Grog in its jaws. I need you all to roll initiative.

(cheering)

SAM: Wait, where are we? Where are the gnomes?

MATT: You guys are way over here on the edge.

LAURA: Oh no! Wait, where are we? I don't see us at all.

SAM: Oh no, we have to go back!

TALIESIN: To the future!

MATT: Please remind me the marching order again. If I recall, it was Grog…

TALIESIN: Me.

MATT: Grog, Percy. Thank you.

TRAVIS: Garmelie was in the middle somewhere.

LAURA: I think he was between me and Vax.

MATT: Garmelie was between the two of you guys, yeah.

TALIESIN: It was Vax, Garmelie, Vex, Keyleth.

MATT: Perfect.

TALIESIN: Don't say that. That's not cool.

MATT: You get to see a little behind the field there.

TALIESIN: I haven't seen that river in two years. It's so nice.

SAM: Pikey pants, what should we do? We should go help them, right?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

SAM: I mean, this mud is nice.

ASHLEY: But I did roll shit initiative, as usual.

MATT: There he is. There's Garmelie. Great.

TALIESIN: That was terrible initiative. I am embarrassed by my initiative.

LAURA: My initiative is really bad, as well.

SAM: This is crazy.

MATT: So top of the round, we have initiative of 25 to 20?

MARISHA: 20. Shut up, really?

LAURA: Go, Keyleth!

MARISHA: I don't think that's ever happened before. That's never happened.

MATT: All right, so Keyleth, a 20. 20 to 15, anyone?

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: All right. 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13.

LAURA: 14.

TRAVIS: This is our first live initiative.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, because it didn't happen last time!

TRAVIS: We're all going to die.

MATT: Scanlan and Pike, what did you guys get?

ASHLEY: I rolled a big fat six.

SAM: I got a four!

MATT: The gnomes bringing up the rear.

SAM: We were caught off-guard by this whole thing. She was teaching me the swirley-whirley while this was all going on.

ASHLEY: That's exactly what was happening.

MATT: All right, so Keyleth, you're up first. You watch as this giant mass of a creature is now clutching Grog in its jaws, and you see its tail begin to whip up, and it's now guarding itself on all sides as the roots are dragging themselves into the earth around you.

MARISHA: So it has roots. It appears to be plant-based?

MATT: Elements of it. As you get a closer look now, you can see parts of its scaly hide emerge into leaf-like protrusions. It is a strange mixture of both giant croc and some sort of a plant-based entity.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to go a little risky here. I'm going to cast Speak With Plants.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Look at Mercer's face.

MARISHA: Dumb idea, yeah.

TALIESIN: He's thinking an alligator voice is going to hurt a lot. That's what he's thinking.

MATT: This is a perfect Keyleth moment. So Speak With Plants generally works with plants.

MARISHA: Sure, but he appears to be fellow kin.

LAURA: He's got roots, yo.

MATT: He does. However, in the purposes of this type of circumstance, it's usually meant for smaller plants that have no sentience that you can normally interact with, like roses and petunias.

MARISHA: I've done this before with talking to the treant.

MATT: You can probably communicate with it, yes. I'm saying, issuing commands on this might be a little more difficult for the rest of the spells.

MARISHA: What if I cast at a higher level? Would that help?

MATT: This is not a spell that can be cast at a higher level, unfortunately. So what do you want to do? You're casting Speak With Plants.

MARISHA: Well, I cast it, so I'm going to say: Hey! You spit that out of your mouth right now, mister!

(laughter)

MARISHA: You don't know where that's been! And trust me, I do.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

(cheering)

LAURA: No! Don't do it!

TALIESIN: (laughs)

TRAVIS: No way. There's no fucking way.

SAM: In a way, it doubled in its level.

LAURA: You do not touch that dice anymore.

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: As you shout this out, pointing at the large crocodile-like entity, you look deep into its beady black and purple eye that darts around in the sunken socket of its crocodile skull, and you can see it re-initiate its clutch on Grog, readjusting, pulling him even further into the jaw. Grog, you suffer another nine points of piercing damage.

TRAVIS: I take what?

MATT: Another nine points of piercing damage.

TRAVIS: Nine points!

TALIESIN: Yeah, you haven't raged yet.

MATT: Sorry, Keyleth. Are you going to stay where you are?

MARISHA: Where am I? Oh, I see where I am. Can I move towards that tree, away from the river that also wants to eat us?

MATT: Sure. You get that far before the rope on your midsection stops you.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, we're all tied together!

MARISHA: Okay, yeah. All right. Cool. Done. Go.

MATT: Grog, your turn.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Where did he bite me, by the way?

MATT: He has you in his jaws by the midsection, and he's trying to turn you so you lose your footing, and you're getting pretty close right now. So he has you clamped right around your hip and chest right now. The nostril's right here, and the other half of the jaw is almost completely wrapped around the side.

TRAVIS: I don't give a fuck! I go into a rage!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Can I go into a frenzied rage?

MATT: Yes, you may.

TRAVIS: And I use my bloodaxe, and I'm going to start whacking him in his stupid plant monster face.

MATT: All right, so you use your bonus action to go into the rage, and you have two attacks, so go for it.

LAURA: Yeah, kill him, Grog. Kill him!

TRAVIS: That's a 30.

MATT: That'll hit.

TRAVIS: For the second one, it's a 21.

MATT: That also does hit, yes. Roll damage for both of those strikes.

TRAVIS: So the first one is a 19, plus five points of necrotic damage for 24.

MATT: All right, 24 points of damage.

TRAVIS: And the second one! Oh shit. That's 15, plus another five points of necrotic damage for 20.

MATT: 20 points. Fantastic. So you're slamming it as hard as you can with the axe in the side. You're jamming it into the side. You can see part of its jaw split open from the impact, and you can see a gleaming of white, slick bone beneath that begins to expose from where you slammed the sharp end of the axe into it twice in a row. It's (snarling) shaking you in its grasp once more.

TRAVIS: I've always wanted to be a dog toy!

TALIESIN: Uh. I feel like we're learning a lot.

MARISHA: Have you told many people that?

TRAVIS: Now I have.

MATT: Does that end your turn, Grog? All right. Next is the croc's turn. At the beginning of its turn, you watch as the wound you just left begins to slowly seal shut. You watch the roots protruding from its body begin to suck the water, moisture, and life force from the land around it, and it begins to heal itself slowly. So some of that damage goes away.

SAM: Goes away?

MATT: It begins to heal itself, healing from the ground it's rooted into.

TRAVIS: I probably should have tried to break the grapple.

LAURA: That would've been a smart move.

TRAVIS: I haven't hit anything in forever.

MATT: Grog. 24. I believe that hits?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that hits.

MATT: You guys watch as the crocodile backs this way slightly, which allows Vax and Garmelie to get an attack of opportunity. Vax does hit. Well, no, it could be sneak attack, although Grog technically right now is not threatening it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I am. I'm hitting it with a thing!

LAURA: Garmelie is standing next to him, too.

MATT: I'll let it. Sure. The timing is pretty close on this, and you'll hear why in a second.

SAM: Seven more crocs appear.

TRAVIS: I'm about to get jacked up.

TALIESIN: We'll see.

MATT: 31 points of damage from Vax. Garmelie misses. He is awesome. So as it pulls away, you guys watch as the crocodile spins around in the direction of you guys, grabs and tugs Grog, throwing him up into the air. In doing so, all of you guys get pulled this way, and Keyleth dragged behind at that point. The jaws open, and Grog vanishes down the creature's gullet.

ASHLEY: No!

TALIESIN: We're all still tied to him!

LAURA: We're all attached to him, though!

MATT: You all got dragged right to the edge of its mouth, so right now, Percy, you have the rope right at the edge of its giant snapping jaws.

TRAVIS: We're a big set of anal beads.

TALIESIN: Can he roll for gag reflex? There's a rope coming out of his throat.

MATT: This creature's pretty profound at swallowing larger entities, so that's fine.

(laughter)

MATT: Anyway. Grog, you're currently blinded and restrained.

TRAVIS: Blinded and restrained?

MATT: Yeah. Things go to darkness. You now have a general idea of what Scanlan and Vax went through, oh but a few days ago.

TRAVIS: (singing) Hello, darkness, my old friend!

MATT: Cool. Yeah, you are completely locked inside of it right there. It also spins around as it does so, and its tail (whiplash) whips out, and you see at the very tip of its tail what looks to be some sort of strange, jagged stinger. This is going to whip around in the direction of you, Vex.

LAURA: Me?

MATT: That is going to be only a 14.

LAURA: Oh, good. It misses.

MATT: Yeah. You duck under it as it scrapes across the ground, causing this huge section of the dirt to grind past, leaving a small trough behind. That's going to end its turn. It is now your turn, Vex.

LAURA: Me? Okay. I am going to send Trinket out and attack it with Bestial Fury.

MATT: Trinket appears at the side of it suddenly, spawning out of this strange burst of shadow energy from the center of your necklace. (roars)

LAURA: Trinket, attack the thing!

MATT: Trinket happily does so. He has advantage on both of these strikes. Go for it.

LAURA: Can I use my dagger that's on me to try to cut the rope that is attached to my front?

MATT: You would have to pull a dagger out, and that would be a bonus action. So you can do that now, but you wouldn't be able to cut it until next turn.

LAURA: Okay. Well, I'll attack with Trinket, and I'll pull my dagger out.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay, that's good. Wow, I never attack with him. How about that. 26!

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: It does.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: So does he do the bite attack, or does he do the claw attack?

MATT: We'll say the first one will be the bite, and then the claw.

LAURA: Okay, so now he's rolling for claws. Okay, so that's a 25 for the second one.

MATT: Both hit. Roll damage for each.

LAURA: Okay. Oh Jesus, I'm so stupid! Okay, that's eight?

MATT: Eight?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Eight damage, all right.

LAURA: And then, for the next one he gets two claws, and he's going to use his fours. Jeez Louise. Five plus seven is 13. No, 12.

MATT: Total of 20 points of damage as Trinket tears into the side of this giant gator-like creature.

LAURA: That's good! And then I cast Hunter's Mark!

MATT: As you pull your dagger out, you're like, Hunter's– damn it. But yeah, at the beginning of your next turn, trying to hack away at that rope; that's fine. That ends your turn, Vex, unless you want to try and move.

LAURA: Can I try to fly up in the air? It won't do anything. I'm stuck on the ground.

MATT: Currently, yes. And you don't have your broom at the ready.

LAURA: No, so I'll stay where I am, I guess. I'll continue to be flung around.

MATT: Perfect. Well done. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Oh boy. A lot of my plans got swallowed.

TRAVIS: (muffled) Help me!

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to pull out the Retort pistol, because Bad News will not be happy at this range. First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take a head shot. I'm going to try and blind him for the round. This is going to go great!

SAM: Laura just quit the show.

MARISHA: She couldn't do it anymore.

TALIESIN: See, I'm too nervous to even take Sharpshooter, so we're just going to do this clean. And I roll a natural 20. Fuck it.

MATT: Hey, Percy. You are in melee with the creature. You have disadvantage on your ranged attack. Roll again.

(groaning)

SAM: Such a stickler.

(cheering)

MATT: Don't even try it.

TALIESIN: The trick is not to care. It's good enough. 26.

MATT: Okay, that does hit.

TALIESIN: Fuck, I forgot to cast Hex. Goddamn it. Can I throw my bonus in there really quick?

SAM: There's children in the audience.

TALIESIN: They watch the show; they've heard me say worse. Can I sneak Hex in there?

MATT: I would say given the fact that you said specifically that you were too nervous to do Sharpshooter, you're also too nervous to remember your Hex, but you can finish your turn with that, if you'd like.

TALIESIN: I can get it in between attacks. Technically not.

MATT: No, that's true. You can do it. I'll let you.

TALIESIN: It's a bonus action. I'll do whatever you say. I'm not going to fight you. I'm trying to find my d10s. Okay, here we are. So that's 11 points of piercing damage.

MATT: All right. Marking that down. What's the save DC on that?

TALIESIN: The save DC is a 19 on a constitution save.

MATT: That is a 12, so yes, it is currently blinded.

TALIESIN: It's not blinded. It has disadvantage on attacks until my next turn.

MATT: There we go. And you are Hexing it, you said?

TALIESIN: And now I'm Hexing. I'm going to give him a disadvantage on strength checks.

MATT: Okay, good to know.

TALIESIN: Strength or constitution? I'm not asking. Why am I asking people? Asking is for quitters. Still at disadvantage because of the close proximity?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: Is his mouth open?

MATT: The mouth is currently slightly open.

TALIESIN: Am I close enough to start laying in a few shots inside?

MATT: Maybe. You can certainly try.

TALIESIN: I'm going to lay in a couple shots inside. Two more shots inside with Hex attack.

MARISHA: Hide behind his uvula, Grog!

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and go for the sides. If I hit Grog, I don't care. He can take it. With disadvantage, that's a jam on the Retort pistol. Wait! No, that's a save reroll. Fuck my life. Okay, so that's a jam, and one to try and fix it really quickly, just trying to give it a clear, with not disadvantage, because it doesn't matter.

MATT: What did you roll as the jam?

TALIESIN: One.

MATT: You rolled a natural one?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Roll damage, anyway.

TALIESIN: Roll damage, anyway?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I hate you.

MATT: Without the Hex damage bonus.

TALIESIN: That's ten points of damage.

MATT: Grog, you take ten points of piercing damage.

TALIESIN: I don't have a jam?

MATT: But it does jam.

TALIESIN: Okay, so I'm going to do a clear.

MATT: So as you go to fire, it splinters off, and there's a burst of smoke and the heat hurts your finger, and you hear this dull (impact) on the inside and a (grunt).

TALIESIN: Sorry!

TRAVIS: It's halved, right?

MATT: It's halved, yes.

TALIESIN: One more shot.

MATT: This is to try and clear it, though. You still have to clear.

TALIESIN: I tried to clear. It clears. I hit 16 plus–

MATT: Okay, yeah, so you manage to get it cleared and get it back and ready to go.

TALIESIN: I don't have a third shot, but now I'm at least reloaded. Do I need another round to reload, or does that count as a reload, a clear? I can never remember.

MATT: Using it as an attack is a reload.

TALIESIN: Okay, so I'll have to next turn. Okay, I'll just call that clear. The last thing I'm going to do is I'm going to move away from the crocodile with all my strength, and I'm going to say: everybody pull! And I'm backing up.

MATT: Make a strength check.

TALIESIN: This is going to be so sad.

MARISHA: Can we assist?

MATT: If you want to use an action on your next turn to assist with this, then yes, that'll be your action.

TALIESIN: It might be fine. Oh god.

ASHLEY: Come on, Percy!

TALIESIN: I have the worst strength. Eight.

MATT: Eight. As you say, “everyone push away!” Your feet feebly glide against the muddy surface of the riverbank as the jaws open slightly and you hear the low, guttural (growling). The breath comes pouring out into you in this strange combination of muddy swamp low tide and compost. It's delightful.

TALIESIN: We technically have our hands free and are tied to the rope, so in theory we could still use our hands and just try and all shift backwards like stupid people.

MATT: But you're all mostly taut on the rope now. So you can. That's what you tried to do, and it failed miserably. That's your turn, Percy. Vax is up now. Vax tries to push inward. Actually, no. He's going to stay where he is out of range. He's going to try and throw his daggers from where he is.

LAURA: Come on, brother!

MATT: He is not going to use his haste boots, though; he's going to save that for later. That's two attacks; both hit. So with the first strike and with the offhand throw. The first one with sneak attack, because it is currently next to Percy. You are threatening it at the moment.

TALIESIN: I hope I have its attention.

MATT: 28 points of damage, and the second strike for a total of nine. So after Vax throws both daggers, both sink into the sides of the giant crocodile. It moves ever so slightly with the first impact, the second one seemingly to no effect. Both daggers appear in a puff of smoke to the side of his belt and he looks to you and goes, “Sister, what are we going to do?”

LAURA: I don't know!

MATT: He can't really move at that point. It is now Garmelie's turn.

LAURA: Oh, Garmelie!

MATT: Garmelie, who can't turn invisible, who can't use his normal tactics, is just, “Um!”

LAURA: Sing a song, Garmelie! Charm him! Do something!

MATT: He pulls up a small pan flute from his side and (whistling). There's an awkward pause, and he goes, “Shit!” He then tries to scoot away as far as he can, but is once again caught between the very taut sides of the rope, unable to shift. That brings us to Pike.

ASHLEY: Okay! How far are we from the disgusting thing?

MATT: You guys are over here, so I'd say, from what you can gauge here, you're approximately 40 feet from it.

ASHLEY: 40 feet? Great. So I'm going to get a little bit closer.

MATT: You go right up to the edge of the water, toes dipping in.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use my trusty old friend Guiding Bolt. I'm going to Guiding Bolt his face.

MATT: Of course you are.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to do it at 5th-level, because my best friend is in his belly!

SAM: Pike, I'm standing right next to you.

ASHLEY: I know.

MATT: So that is 8d6 damage if you hit. Go ahead and roll your radiant attack against it. Spell attack bonus. Roll a d20.

ASHLEY: Roll a d20?

MATT: Roll a d20, add your spell attack bonus, yeah.

ASHLEY: Oh no. That's terrible. 15?

MATT: 15 just hits.

LAURA: How many d6s?

TRAVIS: She needs two more d6s.

LAURA: I have two more. Here we go.

MATT: So 8d6 points of radiant damage, and it is currently marked for an advantage on the next attack against it, as a giant bright light now bursts across the front of its head, causing its eyes to retract and close in pain. (snarling)

MARISHA: Come on. Big money, no whammies!

TRAVIS: There's math happening.

TALIESIN: It's really hard to count up here.

SAM: So exciting.

ASHLEY: 24.

MATT: 24. Not too shabby. 24 points of radiant damage, and the glowing divine beacon now flashing in the center of its face, causing it to close its eyes. The next person that wants to make an attack is going to have a nice little bonus. Is that the end of your turn? You're going to stay right there at the edge of the river?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: Okay, that's the end of your turn, Pike. Scanlan, you're up.

TRAVIS: Help me!

SAM: I can't!

TRAVIS: Oh, you're all the way over.

SAM: I'm across the river! I'm going to help everyone else but you. Can I inspire anyone over there?

MATT: They're within 60 feet.

SAM: Okay. I'll inspire Keyleth. I'll sing to her: (singing) Believe it or not, you're killing a croc! You never thought you could feel so free! Slashing away on a giant fucking croc. How can it be? Believe it or not, it's because of me!

(laughter and applause)

SAM: And I will take out my Wand of Magic Missiles and fire many of them. I think if I use six charges, that's eight darts.

MATT: That's a lot of missiles.

SAM: It's not very powerful, though, and I would not like to shoot at the croc. I would like to shoot at every segment of rope between every single person.

(cheering)

MATT: After the flash of the Guiding Bolt, the rest of the party, you look across the way as you see Scanlan, after singing this delightful song, turn around Rambo-style and release this burst of arcane energy. These arcane darts come firing straight towards the croc, and in a moment of excitement, expecting each of these impacts to blast into the side of this creature, they suddenly soar up into the sky and arc down towards each of you. Before you have a moment to really react, the word leaving your voice, “What?” They streak back down, slamming into each side of the rope, causing it to burst into frayed, burnt rope chunks and pieces of twine, all hanging loosely to your sides. All of you guys are now free to move about as you wish.

SAM: And for my movement, I will grab Pike around the waist and pull us back five feet off the edge of the pond there. Thanks.

MATT: Well done. Top of the round again. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay! You have advantage on the next hit on it?

MATT: Anybody. Whoever has the next attack roll against it has advantage.

MARISHA: I am going to cast 5th-level Blight on him. He is a plant creature! I get how much extra?

MATT: Well, it makes the saving throw with disadvantage and the spell deals maximum damage to it. So what's the spell DC of this?

MARISHA: 19.

SAM: Here's the big roll, guys.

MATT: 19. You can come look at it if you want to.

AUDIENCE: Disadvantage!

MATT: I understand. (chuckles) 15. This is going to suck. So that is 64 points of necrotic damage.

MARISHA: I said, spit him out! That is caca! Spit it out!

MATT: As you clench your hand like this, you guys watch as the roots that connect to its body suddenly begin to wither and dry out. You watch as the outside bark then cracks and turn to ash and dust at its side, and its once verdant green hide begins to curl into this dull gray, lifeless husk. The creature's eyes spring open, and its low, guttural growl turns to this horrible shrieking pain sound. From the inside, Grog, you feel everything tense around you as its form all of a sudden is being drained of the life essence and water that keeps it going. It manages to recover, and the life pumps back into parts of it, but that sucked. That is not a happy creature.

(applause)

MATT: Oh, that was fun to build the tension on that one. All right, Keyleth, that's your action. What else would you like to do for your turn?

MARISHA: I want to move and flank him a little bit if I can. Get on his six. The other way.

MATT: All right, so you move past to this side.

MARISHA: That's good. Closer, a little bit, to him. One more closer.

MATT: Sure, closer's great.

MARISHA: No, back one! Back! No, it's fine.

MATT: Grog, you're up. You're currently still constrained inside its body. The tautness of the rope around your waist has gone slack, so in a moment, you realize either your friends are dead, or they managed to break the rope. You would think that, if you weren't so full of anger and rage at being shot and squeezed and devoured by a giant crocodile. What are you doing?

TRAVIS: Can I reach the jug at all?

MATT: We'll say you can take your action to reach into your Bag of Holding and pull it out, yes.

SAM: I thought he had it out already. It was on his head, right?

MATT: Well, he had it out earlier. Have you had it on your head this whole time?

TRAVIS: I had it tilted up so I could see.

MATT: If that was the case, the sheer force of the creature biting you initially and throwing you onto the bank would've tossed that jug quite a ways away from you.

LAURA: Then it wasn't there.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we'll retcon that shit. It was in my pocket.

MATT: That's what I thought. So do you want to spend your action to rummage through the Bag of Holding and pull out the jar?

TRAVIS: And that's my action?

MATT: That would be your action, yes. You can use your bonus action to attack because you're in a frenzied rage.

TRAVIS: No, fuck it.

TALIESIN: You're still raging, too, because I hit you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I can't hit anything. I'm like this.

MATT: You have disadvantage on your attacks. You can still attack him from the inside.

TRAVIS: Can I take the Titanstone Knuckles, smash them together–

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Can I cast Enlarge on myself?

MATT: You can certainly try. Is that what you want to do?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll try that.

MATT: As your mind is suddenly clouded with the thought of, “Jug! I need to get the jug… No.” You feel your body, your physical form begin to ripple and swell. You guys watch as the crocodile, now currently recovering from the blight-like withering of its form, suddenly its eyes go wide once more as its gullet begins to swell wider and wider. You hear this low (retching), like a cat coughing up a hairball slowed down, as you watch an enlarged Grog get immediately vomited up and out of the creature to its side.

SAM: His favored terrain is vomit.

MATT: Yes, you do have benefits to that. So yes. You manage to do that, sir.

TRAVIS: So I get puked out. Can I use whatever movement speed I have left to drag the daisy chain with me away from the crocodile?

MATT: Okay. As you rush away, he gets an attack of opportunity on you.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah. It got separated.

MATT: It does have disadvantage because you shot it last turn. Which is good, because the second roll was a natural 20. That's a total of 20 to hit. What's your armor class?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: Okay, so it just hits you with the bite.

SAM: Can I Cutting Words him?

MATT: You do have a reaction, so yes, you may.

SAM: Okay. I will Cutting Words him. I'll say: Mm-Grog (vocalizing) Grog (vocalizing). Yeah! It's supposed to distract him.

MATT: Yeah, it's not inspiring somebody. It is intended to distract the opponent. And this crocodile, probably having a rather rough time in the early 2000s, manages to provide even more bile from its stomach at the sound of a rehashed Hanson song. Go ahead and make your roll.

SAM: What do I roll?

MATT: You roll your inspiration die.

SAM: Eight.

MATT: No, it's a d10.

SAM: d10? Eight.

MATT: You were intent on that happening. As it reaches out to try and bite towards Grog, it hears the sound and its head quirks, vomits a little. Grog, you manage to get away, at that point, we'll say about that far. As you turn around, the daisy chain has not followed you. Glancing down, the rope that was once around your waist has snapped by the growth in size, and all the rest of the ropes have also been snapped. Sorry.

LAURA: Hey, you're out!

MATT: Perfect. That ends your turn. It is now the croc's turn. It's going to make a bite attack right now. This is going to be at Percy, since you're right there in front of him.

TALIESIN: Bring it!

SAM: Don't worry. I won't sing Hanson again.

MATT: With disadvantage, that is a 23.

TALIESIN: That hits.

MATT: That hits you. All right, as the head turns back towards you, it opens to the side and tries to clamp on you.

TALIESIN: I'm using my new fancy counter.

MARISHA: Yeah, your counter ring.

TALIESIN: I'm so excited to take damage.

MATT: That is a 34.

TALIESIN: I'm not that excited to take damage. 34?

MATT: 34 points of piercing damage, and you are currently grappled and restrained.

TALIESIN: Grappled and restrained.

MARISHA: Wait, he's in the crocodile's mouth now?

MATT: The crocodile has now snapped, its jaws moving to Percy, and Percy, you're currently held tight in its jaws. It's trying to lift you up now, possibly to fill its now terribly empty stomach. It lost more than it originally started this battle with. As it swings around its tail, in doing so, its stinger sweeps overhead. It has a reach of ten at this point. We'll say in that arc there. This is going to be towards Vex. Towards you Vex, with disadvantage. Still, that's a 21. What's your armor class?

LAURA: Fuck! I mean, 20.

MATT: 20, okay, so it still hits you. All right, so the stinger (whipcrack) grinds itself into your flesh, tears through the armor separation there, and you can feel pulsing. I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Because that's my strength.

TALIESIN: You got this.

LAURA: Do I?

TALIESIN: You do.

LAURA: Ten!

MATT: Well, you take 16 points of piercing damage from the actual stinger itself striking you. You now feel that pulse of venom through your body, and as it begins to swell through you, you feel all the colors and all the images of the landscape around you begin to shift and bubble and move.

MARISHA: You're tripping, man.

MATT: You are tripping balls right now. You look to your left and see Garmelie next to you, whose frightened expression becomes suddenly this giant feral wolverine that hisses at you! You look to your right, and you see the giant crocodile holding Percy suddenly merge into one strange, giant Medusa creature. You don't know which way is up and down, and you are extremely frightened and confused.

MARISHA: You're frightened? Oh no, it's a bad trip.

LAURA: Does that mean I lose my turn?

MATT: Well, that ends the crocodile's turn, and it is now your turn. Currently, you cannot take reactions, and I need you to roll a d8 to see what you do.

SAM: Wait, it could be anything?

MATT: (chuckles) You're so stunned by this moment, and your brain being completely turned around. What did you roll?

LAURA: I rolled a five.

MATT: Roll of five. Okay. You take no action, and you use all of your movement to move in a random direction. You go into the river. You turn around and begin to flee. Looking ahead of you, you see what seems to be a moving sea of grass, and all of a sudden you feel your feet (splashing). The river begins to pull you away at the end of your turn.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch. Oh shit.

LAURA: Bye!

MATT: Make another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Oh, good. Okay. Oh, natural 20!

ASHLEY: She turns back time.

MATT: As soon as your vision comes back to you and a breath of relief hits your form as suddenly you have control of your form. As it begins to be sucked under the water. End of your turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: So I'm grappled. There's nothing I can do.

MATT: You're restrained. You can attack. You can't move, and all your attacks have disadvantage.

TALIESIN: And everything I have, at least at the moment, anything with a gun is at disadvantage. Oh, but I've got Hex on him, so even if I hit him with a sword, it's an extra d6. I'm going to try and start hacking him to let me go. Ooh! Weird question. If I use the drop-it effect, the grit drop an item, can I get him to drop me, as an item?

MATT: I don't think you count as an item, I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: Sticking him in the jaw, I can't get him to? I can't make him roll to drop?

MATT: I don't think that's how it works. It's not like you hit a couple fingers and they drop a cup. This is a massive muscle currently clamped on you, trying to swallow you.

TALIESIN: I was hoping.

MATT: I know. Sorry.

TALIESIN: Okay, in that case, I'm going to grab my sword and start hacking at him.

MATT: Okay, so we'll say you use your bonus action to draw your weapon. It's right there by your side. You pull it out. Go ahead and make your attacks against the crocodile.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's a 15?

MATT: 15 just barely hits.

SAM: Okay. You had advantage on them.

TALIESIN: Did I? No, I don't have advantage for these.

MATT: Actually, technically it would have been the first attack since Pike's Guiding Bolt. Thank you for the reminder of that. So it would've been a normal attack.

TALIESIN: That was the first attack since her Guiding Bolt?

MARISHA: No, I thought I attacked.

MATT: Yours didn't have a spell attack, it just instantly hit and made a save. So technically, what was your first roll?

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: Yeah, you hit.

TALIESIN: Okay. The next roll wasn't a 20, so it doesn't matter, anyway.

MATT: The Guiding Bolt wears off. However, that did manage to get rid of the disadvantage on that one strike. Seeing the bright side of its face, you take your blade out and hack downward for the first hit, which does strike true across the side of its face. You can make your next two attacks.

TALIESIN: That's 28.

MATT: Those do have disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Okay, in that case, natural 20. Oh, it has disadvantage, though, so it's still the 28.

SAM: Matt, if I can be a stickler, I also Cutting Wordsed him, so that puts him at disadvantage on a save.

MATT: On his next saving throw, but he's not making a saving throw.

SAM: This is a kangaroo court!

MATT: And if I'm going to be a stickler here, Sam. The next time he has a saving throw, I'll keep the disadvantage in mind.

LAURA: Oh, you're in trouble, Samuel.

TALIESIN: All right, so that hit, and then for my last one… That's not bad. 21.

MATT: Yeah, all three strikes hit. Go ahead and roll damage on all those.

TALIESIN: Let me get my new d8. That's super. Oh, I can get all my d8s. And then 3d6 for some necrotic damage. So that's 13 points of necrotic damage and 37 points of slashing damage.

MARISHA: Kill it!

MATT: Slamming into the side of its face, you begin splitting open a section of the side of its head. You can see its cracked, withered form from the Blight spell earlier has become a little more brittle, and each impact is cutting deeper than any of the previous hits has. We're going to take a quick break here. Five, ten-minute break to use the restroom, and return to the apex of this battle.
Break

[break]
Part II

TRAVIS: Is this for me? Motherfuckers!

LAURA: You're so low.

TALIESIN: Oh, god, that game again.

LAURA: Grog? It's all for Grog? Is it just for you?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So on Vax's turn… Vax is going to go ahead and dart around this way, behind Garmelie, getting to where Trinket is flanking along the river bend there.

LAURA: Oh, are we just right back in?

MATT: As he does pull out of the range of the tail, the croc can go ahead and make an attack of opportunity with the stinger out towards him behind. That is not going to hit, that is a natural four. That's going to be like a 16, so yeah. As it swings with its tail wide to Vax, Vax ducks beneath it, arms up to the side, leaps in the air and catches himself right on the edge of the bank. He looks over and notices you, running off to the side.

LAURA: Me! Me, help me.

MATT: Immediately decides to put his daggers back away, and then uses a dash action to dart over to the edge of the river where you are, and is going to reach out and try and grab your arms. You guys are reaching for each other right now. That is how it's going to go for this moment. That brings us to Garmelie, who now, free of the rope circumstance and the chaos around, looks and sees you out in the river, scoots around, goes out with, grabs your brother's arm and then reaches out towards your arm and chains his way towards you, putting his hand towards you.

LAURA: Garmelie's helping!

MARISHA: Garmelie!

MATT: “Grab!”

LAURA: Okay!

TALIESIN: It's a sign he's going to turn on us at any moment.

LAURA: I know.

MATT: So you guys grab and link arms. At that point he's going to go ahead and make a strength check to pull you out of the roaring rapids. Okay. He manages to hold in the moment, but doesn't actually get any ground on pulling you out of the river, so now it's just him and Vax holding you at the edge. The river's pulling you harder and harder, and you can feel the actual swell getting stronger, but they're still managing to keep you in place. That ends his turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. How is the monster crocodile plant doing? Is he looking rough?

MATT: He's looking hurt.

ASHLEY: Is he regenerating himself?

MATT: You've noticed each time it's had a moment to itself, its roots have dug in and it's pulled back into its form, yeah. It has been still regenerating every round, yes.

ASHLEY: That's bullshit.

TRAVIS: It really is.

ASHLEY: You know what? I'm going to hold off on that then. No, you know what? I'm going to Flame Strike him.

MATT: What are you doing on him?

ASHLEY: Just the old Flame Strike.

MATT: Sure. All righty. Where do you want that Flame Strike to land?

ASHLEY: Just on his whole body.

MATT: Wherever you see it, onto the middle of its body.

ASHLEY: Oh, where do I want to see it? Maybe his torso area.

LAURA: Where it won't hurt anybody else around.

MATT: As you look over in the distance, unable to really see beyond the form of the creature, you bring the Flame Strike down onto its form. It's going to make a saving throw with disadvantage because of your Cutting Words, which is good because it rolled a 17 for the first one. And it rolled a 15 for the second one. No dex bonus for it because it's not very fast. Your DC is?

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: 18, yes. 8d6 radiant damage. Go ahead and roll that.

LAURA: Wait, here's some more d6. Take them.

MATT: That's a ten-foot radius. I'll say for the sake of knowledge in the area, too, and seeing Trinket attack, you manage to pull it out of the range of the bear, not wanting to ignite him. Scanlan, you're up next.

SAM: Yeah, I know.

MATT: How much fire and divine damage?

ASHLEY: 28.

MATT: 28 points of damage. As you guys see this gathering of small reddish and white divine particles circle in the air, faster and faster, and then (boom) a column of divine flame strikes from the heavens, blasting into the side of this creature. It rears back (roars) in pain as you see now its slightly withered, blight-impacted grayish-green back is now burnt to a black crisp, and smoke begins to rise off of its form. It's very pissed off.

TRAVIS: Monster!

MATT: Is that the end of your turn, Pike? Are you going to stay where you are?

ASHLEY: How's everybody doing?

TALIESIN: I'm a little iffy, but I'm okay.

ASHLEY: You're a little iffy? Yeah, I want to Healing Word Percy.

MATT: What's the range on it?

ASHLEY: 60 feet.

MATT: 60 feet? Yeah, you can get to him from there.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: I don't know. So you heal him.

ASHLEY: All right, so I'll heal him.

MATT: So you're casting Healing Word at second level?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Go for it. Roll the dice.

TALIESIN: What is that? How many– oh, she's rolling dice.

ASHLEY: 19.

TALIESIN: 19. That's nice.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Okay. I don't know, man.

MATT: Real fast, Pike. That was 2d4 plus five?

ASHLEY: Oh, isn't it my spellcasting modifier?

MATT: No, just add plus five.

ASHLEY: Okay, so then it would be 13, because I rolled two fours.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, what are you doing?

SAM: Is it a large creature? I know it's large, but how large?

MATT: It would be classified as a huge creature.

SAM: Okay. Well, then forget that. Okay, I'm going to Eyebite him with my eyes of craziness. Put up the hand cone, and I'm going to try to make him sick.

MATT: All righty, so let's take its wisdom saving throw against your DC. That is a six with no modifier. It is certainly sickened, though its disadvantage has worn off, of course.

TALIESIN: There's so many rings on it. It's great.

SAM: And I won't really move, but I will inspire Grog, because he needs to hit something, man.

TRAVIS: I'm telling you.

SAM: I'll inspire him with a limerick. A warning from your favorite bard: In the Feywild, you should be on guard. I went off to take a shitter, and saw, like, a thousand Critters.

(cheering)

SAM: And they kind of made me hard!

(cheering)

MATT: Take your inspiration die, Grog. All right, staying where you are, Scanlan?

SAM: Staying where I am.

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Oh! It's me! Oh dear god. Okay. I am going to do what worked really well last time, and I'm going to do a 4th-level Blight. And what I want to do is, I want to take my staff, because I'm near him, right?

MATT: You are.

MARISHA: Okay, I want to take my staff, and where Pike put that nice little crispy donut hole in the middle of him, I want to take my staff right in the middle and bring it down and cast Blight.

MATT: All righty. Saving throw against the DC with disadvantage. A six and an eight.

(laughter and applause)

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering and chanting “Keyleth”)

MARISHA: That's the coolest thing that's ever happened to me.

MATT: You hear the phantom chanting in the back of your head. How do you want to do this?

MARISHA: My ego loves this. Is Percy still in his mouth?

MATT: Percy is still in its mouth, yes.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to say: Stop putting foreign objects in your mouth!

MATT: As you slam your staff into the ground with a giant ripple, all of a sudden you watch as the various plant growth in the ground begins to turn to a dark black gray at the base of the staff. It curls across the ground, like the actual line of blighted death and decay seems to spear out across. It manages to catch the bottom and sink up the roots of the creature. As it begins to swell up into its body, you see it taking form. How do you want the Blight spell to take hold in its body?

MARISHA: It takes hold? Okay. How about this? You know the petrified forests in Arizona? Can I petrify him?

MATT: All right, so as the Blight spell spirals across his body like a spider web, crackling, it begins to (snarl). It rears up with its arms out in front of it taut, the muscles locking up like this giant arching statue, its jaws up in the air holding Percy aloft.

(laughter)

MATT: You hear the scraping and cracking of bark and dried plant matter, its entire form slightly squeaking as it becomes a solid, petrified piece of plant matter, the life force now drained from it. The roots at its sides crack and turn to ash. Part of its form tends to sink to one side of the mud, and now this once very dangerous-looking creature is solid, dead plant matter, holding a wiggling and very unhappy human.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Hey, Percy! How's the weather up there?

TALIESIN: Ow!

LAURA: I would be cheering for you if I wasn't drowning at this very moment.

MATT: On that note, too, I need you to make a strength check.

LAURA: Oh. Well, that's a 15 there. Actually, that's a straight check. That's not a saving throw?

MATT: Right, just a check.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: (chuckles) You and Vax and Garmelie still hold your ground, but unfortunately, not a whole lot of physical strength in this daisy chain right now.

LAURA: Can I ask Trinket to come up and help?

MATT: You can, yes. And Trinket rushes over. (moans) Comes up behind Vax and bites the back of his cloak and begins tugging on him as he's now being slightly strangled by the bear. Pulled back toward Trinket, adding his strength to that. What's Trinket's strength bonus?

LAURA: Yeah. Four! He's stronger than me.

MATT: With a roll of a 17, that brings it to a 21. Whereas you began to pull them in towards the river, Trinket makes up the back end of it and manages to drag all of you out of the wake, onto the side. As you get up and cough out the water, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles you on the side of your face.

LAURA: Thanks, buddy.

MATT: (moans)

LAURA: I get up and hug Garmelie. What! You saved me. You're wonderful.

MATT: “What was I supposed to do, watch you drown? No! We're almost to the end of our agreement.”

LAURA: I tousle his hair. Good job, Keyleth!

MARISHA: Thanks.

LAURA: How you doing, Percy?

TALIESIN: Grog, could you help with this?

TRAVIS: Do I get to chop down a tree, finally?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I really wanted alligator boots, but I suppose that will do. Please help.

TRAVIS: Do I get to chop him? I start chopping down the petrified alligator tree!

LAURA: Trinket, catch him when he falls.

TALIESIN: What?

MATT: Trinket rushes up and looks up at you underneath with open jaws.

TALIESIN: No!

MATT: As Grog, large Grog, comes lumbering up. (heavy footsteps, whack) With one clean hit, the bloodaxe carves straight through its body, causing the upper part of the torso to slam into the ground with a big speed. Upon the impact, it rolls a few feet, taking Percy in its jaws.

TALIESIN: Oh, ow!

MATT: You do suffer two points of damage from it, but eventually you hit a point in the bank where the jaw cracks into a hundred pieces, and you tumble onto the ground and catch your breath, after being restrained for so long.

TALIESIN: I stand up and kick one of them.

MARISHA: Keyleth wants to get down on the grass that she hurt, and I want to cast Druidcraft and heal it, and talk to the grass, and be like: It wasn't personal. I hope you know you were not the intended target, you just happened to be caught in the fray. It's okay. Don't be mad.

MATT: As you extend your fingers about you, you see small strands of green go (popping) and you hear a hundred soft voices go, “Eh.”

MARISHA: I like your enthusiasm, grass.

LAURA: All right. How are you doing over there, gnomesies?

ASHLEY: Come on, you should get over here! No rush, but.

TALIESIN: All right, there's a river.

SAM: Don't forget to loot the body?

LAURA: There's nothing to loot on the petrified alligator, is there?

TALIESIN: Actually, there's an empty stomach, isn't there?

TRAVIS: It's made of petrified wood.

TALIESIN: I'm going to stick my head in and see if there's anything in there.

MATT: Okay. The very tiny, pressed stomach interior of this creature, petrified as it is, it's like staring into one of those weird high school science room half-man organ presentation statues. You can see where the folds of the stomach lining are. There appear to be some remnants of bone, some entities that were partially digested, but nothing that catches your eye to be something worth pulling out of it.

TALIESIN: Just for fun, Grog, smash this.

TRAVIS: Okay! (whack)

MATT: And with that, (shatter) the pieces of it go scattered all across the ground. Elements of it tumble into the water and get washed away. It is no more.

TRAVIS: How was that?

TALIESIN: Anything exciting come out?

MATT: Many small, petrified crocodile pieces.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pick one up and bring it to Keyleth. For you. Well done.

(applause)

MARISHA: I get a souvenir from the Feywild! That's all I wanted.

TRAVIS: We've got two more rivers, right?

MATT: One more, technically. You guys have all made your way across. There's one last one that leads to the outskirts of the Shademirk.

LAURA: I want to keep perception check up to make sure we don't run into another one of those fuckers.

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Listen, hey, is anybody near death? I'm super big right now. How about I just throw everybody across the river?

ASHLEY: I'll go.

TRAVIS: You want to?

MARISHA: I'm in.

TRAVIS: Can I throw Pike across the river?

MATT: Make a strength check.

LAURA: Yeah, Pike's already across. 22 for perception.

TRAVIS: Wait. I need you to smack me in the face first. (impact) I would like to rage! Natural 20.

ASHLEY: I'm going to get in a ball.

MATT: Which you have disadvantage on. Hold on, because you took a point of exhaustion from frenzied raging during the battle. However, you do get advantage on strength checks while raging, so it's a singular roll, so the natural 20 stands. So as you pick Pike up, she smacks you in the face. The grin crawls across, and you (whoosh) lob her. She lands in the top of a tree. You see (cracking) in the bushes as a few leaves dangle down. You can see some gloppy black stuff out of the side, and you hear this muffled voice in the distance as Pike landed okay.

ASHLEY: She's laughing. That was awesome!

TRAVIS: Should I try and skip Vax across the river?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah, do it.

MATT: Vax says, “I'd rather run.” And he goes running forward and attempts to make a leap across the river. He leaps, makes it most of the way, catches his ankle on the edge, and begins to flutter backward.

TRAVIS: That's what you get, stupid!

LAURA: Can't you save him? Aren't you on the other side?

SAM: I'm looking at the trees. I'm hanging out.

MATT: Yeah. However, he does manage to right himself. He only got partially into the river and managed to pull his way out, so he's fine. Grog, who are you throwing next?

TRAVIS: Who's next?

TALIESIN: I'll go.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Percy's next! Can I granny shot this one?

MATT: Go for it. Strength check.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: (grunts) You lob him. It's enough to get you across, but the landing is not very graceful.

TALIESIN: Can I acrobatics check this to try and make the landing?

MARISHA: Three-point landing.

TALIESIN: That'll be a 21.

MATT: 21. You manage to use the actual momentum to go into a shoulder roll, stumble forward, and you come to a standing point. However, when you do, you realize you rolled through a bunch of slick, tar-like muck, and the side of your jacket is now seeping with it.

TALIESIN: I was already covered in crocodile bile.

MATT: There you go. You feel balanced.

TALIESIN: This is another layer of sadness.

TRAVIS: Who's next?

LAURA: I'll go next. But I want to bring out my broom and hold it in my hand.

TRAVIS: In the spirit of the Olympic games, can I shot put her?

MATT: Make a strength check. You see Trinket come up.

LAURA: Come on!

MATT: Trinket goes into your necklace.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. No, it's not. It's a 23. I'm strong as fuck.

MATT: I would say the lighter half of the twins, but I think they're an equal weight class. You grab her by the side and (whoosh, grunt) launch her into the air. You catch your stomach contents. Make an acrobatics check.

LAURA: That's okay. That's a 28, man.

MATT: You actually catch yourself on the side of the tree, landing, and then leap off of it with the last bit of momentum, stepping gingerly on the tips of your feet.

ASHLEY: I clap from however far away I am.

MATT: You hear muffled clapping in the tree boughs ahead of you.

LAURA: I fly up and I grab Pike down from the tree. Can I do that?

MATT: She's about 15 feet up.

LAURA: Oh. I fly 15 feet up and grab Pike.

ASHLEY: Thanks! I didn't know how I was going to get down.

TRAVIS: Are you left?

MARISHA: I'm left.

TRAVIS: Do you want to go with me as I jump across, or should I throw you?

LAURA: Piggy-back that shit, Keyleth!

SAM: I wave my hands and say: I'll catch you, Kiki!

MARISHA: Okay. You want to shot put this one?

TRAVIS: No, it's going to be fast-pitch softball.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: No, wait. I'm going to be a long snapper in football and turn around.

(laughter)

SAM: I will receive that. Set!

TRAVIS: 19!

MARISHA: Hut!

MATT: (grunts) With a big long toss, you make it most of the way over the water and begin to descend very close on the opposite side of the bank. Make an acrobatics check.

SAM: Use your new dice!

MARISHA: No, fuck that new dice. Nine. Not great.

MATT: The good news is, you miss the river. The bad news is, you Warner Brothers cartoon faceplant into the actual ground on the opposite side.

(laughter)

MATT: Suffering 11 points of damage, and as Percy pulls you up, your entire front of your face and the little bit of hair in the crown is caked with this tar-like substance. Your nostrils are filled with it. You can't open your eyes. It tastes like IHOP. It's terrible.

ASHLEY: Hey!

MATT: Tonight's episode of Critical Role, not brought to you by IHOP. And probably never will be.

ASHLEY: There goes our IHOP sponsorship.

MARISHA: I gag a little, try to keep it down. Try to wash my face if I can.

SAM: Who's left? Garmelie?

LAURA: Oh, Garmelie!

MATT: Garmelie's on the side. He goes, “Don't worry. You first.”

LAURA: No, he's going to leave. I mean, he can. I guess you got us all the way here, didn't you?

MATT: “Once he's across, our accord is complete.”

TRAVIS: Oh yeah. No, totally. Come here, bitch.

MATT: “No!” Roll an attack. Well, technically, this is a grapple, so it's an athletics check.

TRAVIS: A 20. Total.

MATT: You reach out and his eyes go wide and he darts around, and your fingers barely catch the edge of his fur, and you get enough of a hold to lift him off the ground. He's now dangling from your giant half-giant ass hand. “No! I don't have to go there! I'm just going back the other way when we're done!”

TRAVIS: Oh, no, yeah, I totally hear what you're saying. We're going for a ride, bitch. And I back up.

MATT: Make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: 20 again. 12 plus eight.

MATT: Your large, bounding form (heavy footsteps, impact, scream). As you make it across, you hit the other side. The actual bank shifts, and you guys feel the impact on the other side beneath your feet, and there's a small crater in the ground where you landed, and the river bank slowly fills it in as it lowers it just below river water level. Garmelie is now clutching your arm, his hands and legs wrapped around your forearm.

(laughter)

MATT: His head was on the other side. He eventually loosens his grip, plops to the ground, and dusts himself off a bit. “Very well. Welcome to the Shademirk. Good luck.”

LAURA: We made it!

TRAVIS: You don't want to see what happens at the end of the journey? You want to come with us, right?

MATT: He looks past you, and you all turn and look into the Shademirk. At this point, you can see the bog itself is an endless dumping form of sludge into the Gilded Run. The water itself is barely tearing it away, what you guys noticed before. The black oily material is itself thick, ichor-like tar. The smell that you're very familiar with, that horrible, acrid, sulfurous scent is very thick in the area, mixed with a terrible rotting leaf and decay. You see bubbles going (bubbling) and churning up in certain parts of it, and there are elements where you see knotted and gnarled roots that tangle up above the surface. It is the most uninviting place in nature you've ever seen and experienced, and you can see in the distance the swamp trees with high root sections overhead so you can walk underneath are scattered throughout ahead of you. Garmelie slowly turns his head back to you and goes, “No, I'm all right. But I appreciate that. Be careful. Don't stay in one place too long. The longer you stand still, the harder it gets to escape the place you stood. And there's a lot of things that tend to live here, from what I've heard, that wait for stillness as a means of attack. So keep moving.”

LAURA: Keep moving.

TRAVIS: What kinds of things?

MATT: “I don't know. It's time for me to go. Thank you guys so much. I appreciate this. It's been something.”

LAURA: Wait, before he goes, I want to give him a kiss on his head.

MATT: A little kiss on the head, and he goes, “Well, at least it's been a pleasure travelling with you, my lady.” He takes your hand and does a little bow and (kiss) on the edge.

LAURA: As I was kissing him, can I give him a little pat down to make sure he didn't steal anything?

(laughter and applause)

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23? As you feel down, you feel this slight little bump inside of his fur, and you're afraid to touch it for fear of it being– on the outside of his body! Not that you understand the physicality of the satyr, but still. It's hard and smooth. And appears to wiggle loosely when you touch it.

LAURA: Well, now I feel wrong saying I reach for it and try to see what it is.

MATT: Do you reach for it?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: You're committed now.

MATT: Grasping onto it, you tug, and pull forth the small onyx mastiff that you had found earlier in the campground.

LAURA: I take it back.

MATT: He goes, “Oh, that's right. I was holding this for you.”

LAURA: Thank you so much. You're so kind.

TRAVIS: The little black dog statue? Oh, I like that thing.

MATT: “Fantastic. Well, wish you all the best of luck. Stay alive.”

TRAVIS: Wait a minute. How do you plan on getting back across the rivers?

MATT: “I have my ways.” And he turns invisible. You see little sludgy footprints go off down the shore and around the bend.

MARISHA: Bye!

TALIESIN: Cast Hunter's Mark really quick.

LAURA: Oh, on him? Can I cast Hunter's Mark on him really quick?

MATT: What do you want to do?

LAURA: Can I cast Hunter's Mark on him?

MATT: You cannot currently see him now. He's already vanished.

LAURA: Sorry. I should've done it when I was kissing him, but I was distracted by feeling him up.

MATT: It happens. All right, so what are you guys going to do?

TRAVIS: Awesome. So we're across the rivers. Everything gets worse now, and we can't stop moving.

TALIESIN: We should move until it's time to camp, and when we camp, we should camp in your palacious…

LAURA: Oh, in the mansion.

SAM: I've got the mansion.

LAURA: Thank god.

MARISHA: Are we in the bog now?

MATT: This would be the tangleward tip of it, the southern tip of the bog, yes.

MARISHA: I want to test and see if we sink when we step on the bog.

MATT: Okay. You step onto it, and your foot descends about three inches before it comes to a stop. (squelch)

MARISHA: It comes to a stop.

MATT: But as you go to remove your foot, (sucking sound). It's very sticky. Effectively, you guys are at half movement moving through the bog.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without Trace on us so that we can be stealthy. She doesn't have mist form, not until we rest.

MARISHA: I could rest and learn mist, and we can mist across. That was what I was going to say.

TRAVIS: Is it a treeline? Are we into trees?

MATT: Yeah, it is a very thickly wooded swamp now. The ground floor and the base of most of the trees, and occasionally dripping from the top of the canopy itself is that black, sludge-like material.

TRAVIS: It's dripping from the trees?

MATT: It's seemingly seeping from everything.

LAURA: I have Land's Stride. Does that mean that this doesn't affect me? Or am I still slowed down?

MATT: Read out Land's Stride to me.

LAURA: Land's Stride isn't on any of my pieces of paper. Oh, wait. Here it is. Moving through non-magical difficult terrain costs you no movement.

MATT: Technically, yes, you can move at your normal pace. The rest of the party still has to stay slowed.

LAURA: Then I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to pull out my broom and I'm going to let the gnomes ride on it, since you guys will sink down a little bit more than the rest of us. Do you want to ride on the broom?

SAM: How do we do that?

LAURA: You sit on it, and then you fly.

SAM: Do we have to say a magical word?

LAURA: I'll say it for you.

TALIESIN: I don't think it works that way. I think you have to tell them, and then they have to say it.

LAURA: Oh, really?

MATT: You can try. It's up to you.

LAURA: Sit on it.

SAM: Okay. Whenever a woman tells me to sit on something, I do.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Do you want front or back?

TRAVIS: Yeah, sit on it! Front or back?

SAM: I'll sit front, so you can have your arms around me.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: That's sweet. (hacking spit)

MATT: Okay. As you guys get up onto the broom, you release it from your grasp, and it goes (splat) onto the ground. Both of you guys sink about three or four inches into the ground.

LAURA: Say (hacking spit).

ASHLEY and SAM: (hacking spit).

MATT: It lifts up and pulls you guys slowly out of the sludge, (squelch) finally freeing yourself, and you're now hovering a very short distance above the ground.

LAURA: So at least you guys and me aren't slowed down, so that's good.

SAM: Bye, guys!

TRAVIS: By the way, now that we're out of all this shit, can we look around and see if Ukurat has been peeping us this entire time?

LAURA: Can we see him?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: We're not in the forest anymore? This is bog?

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: Right now, technically it's swamp, yeah. Not considered forest.

TALIESIN: 16.

LAURA: 20.

SAM: 16 here.

MARISHA: Oh my god! It's a 31.

MATT: As you guys take a moment to look out in the distance, you're unable to really make any idea of a form or movement. Keyleth, you do see on the tree on the other bank, it looks a little thicker towards the top than you expect, and as you take a moment to glance, you can see a rather large creature drop down from the canopy onto the ground, and then slink behind it.

LAURA: So he's checking us out.

MATT: He's following you.

LAURA: So he's going to be able to get across all these rivers?

TALIESIN: Apparently, he's fine.

LAURA: He's pretty cool. He can jump really far.

MARISHA: I give him a– from a distance.

MATT: He shrinks sideways against the tree and is now barely visible, other than his furry chest that's now peeking out one side of the width of the tree.

MARISHA: I give him a–

MATT: No reaction. Vax at this point is like, “So are we going to move on, then?”

LAURA: Yes, but stealthily.

MATT: “Let's do it.” Make a stealth check, guys.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without Trace on us, so we all got plus ten.

ASHLEY: Oh!

LAURA: Did you get something good?

ASHLEY: I did.

TRAVIS: I fucked it all up.

(laughter)

SAM: 32.

MATT: 32?

SAM: I rolled a natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: Percy.

TALIESIN: 33.

MATT: Keyleth.

MARISHA: 24.

MATT: All right, Vex.

LAURA: 32.

MATT: 32! Pike.

ASHLEY: I rolled a 30. I'm so quiet!

MATT: And over here we have 12-foot-tall Grog. What did you roll?

TRAVIS: I rolled a 14.

MATT: You guys begin trudging forward into the Shademirk. Everyone's being kind of… and he's lumbering through it like a mammoth.

TRAVIS: We're being sneaky, guys!

MATT: You all shush him, and you find ways to cushion his footfalls. As unstealthy as you may be in the moment, the rest of the party helps try to keep you going forward the best they can, being unheard. You guys continue forward for about 30 minutes, not really understanding the direction. You know that heavy mountain that you saw on the way in is central and to the right of your direction, and you're not entirely certain where the tree is here in the Shademirk, but you're keeping your eyes peeled, and you continue to move forward further and further in. It is difficult. It is hot. It is muggy. There are heavy insects, large winged bugs (buzzing) through the air, and you knock them away. The bubbling of the ground itself is releasing sulfurous gas and various other chemicals into the air that are probably not healthy to breathe extensively. Many of you are having to cover your mouth to keep from coughing to break up your stealth capabilities.

TALIESIN: I'm going to mask it.

MATT: Put your mask on, okay.

LAURA: Can I keep an eye out for any movement ahead of us or around us?

MATT: Make a perception check. Yes?

TRAVIS: I only stay enlarged for ten minutes.

MATT: At this point, it has now died down, and your form has shifted to its normal form.

TRAVIS: Do I get to reroll my stealth check?

MATT: No.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: As you guys move forward and Vex is keeping watch, Vex, you see ahead of you about 80 yards, a large, stocky tree in the distance that has a gentle glow emanating from the trunk.

SAM: Burn it down.

TALIESIN: That simple.

LAURA: Does it look like the tree we're looking for?

MATT: It's hard to say at this distance. You would have to get closer to get a better look.

TRAVIS: How far off is it?

MATT: About 80 yards.

LAURA: 80 yards. Fuck, I'm so scared of everything here.

TRAVIS: Well, what's between us and it?

MATT: A series of trees and a few low areas of open sludge.

LAURA: And it's a tree with a glowing bottom?

MATT: It looks thicker than a lot of the other trees that you've seen in the area, and there's a dull glow at the base of it.

TRAVIS: I've got a great idea. Let's send Trinket to go check out the tree.

LAURA: What the fuck? Why?

TRAVIS: He's a bear, and this is the woods.

TALIESIN: This is not the woods. This is a bog.

LAURA: If he goes unconscious, he does automatically come back. But no, that's only within 100 feet, that's not 80 yards. No.

TALIESIN: So take the broom back and fly 100 feet behind him. It's an idea.

MARISHA: But we're only 80 yards out. Feet? 80 feet?

LAURA: I'm not slowed down, so you know what, I'm going to sneak behind Trinket. I'll send Trinket out, and I'll sneak 100 feet behind him.

MATT: Trinket emerges (impact) in the sludge. (moans)

LAURA: I'm sorry, buddy. Okay. Don't get too far ahead of me. We're going to sneak ahead and check out this glowy tree. See it?

MATT: (grunts)

LAURA: Yeah. All right. Sneaky-sneaky.

MATT: And Trinket manages to stalk forward. Make a stealth check for Trinket, without the plus ten, because Trinket was not around when you cast the spell.

LAURA: That's mean. What do I add?

MATT: His dexterity modifier.

LAURA: Yeah, okay. Six.

MARISHA: Total?

TALIESIN: Really?

TRAVIS: It was a six?

LAURA: He gets no pluses.

MATT: Nope. He's not very stealthy, that bear.

LAURA: No. He's a bear in armor. No. Six.

MATT: Oh, it was a six. I thought you were joking. All right. Trinket (squishy footsteps). You can hear the impact coming as each footfall hits the sludge. As you get closer towards it, keeping at bay, as best out of sight as possible. You see the tree, while it is thicker, it is not as high as the other trees. In fact, where there would be a top of a tree, it looks to be instead a tangled mass of branches that have been matted over and tied down to the top of where this tree ends.

LAURA: I tell him to stop.

MATT: Trinket stops. You get a glance and the small glow is apparently a porthole or a window that is carved circular out from one side of the trunk of this tree. The glow is a dull reddish-orange, and it's flickering like firelight.

TRAVIS: It's the Keebler elves. Kill them all!

LAURA: I call him back. I feel like that's animals. That's not the tree we're looking for.

MARISHA: This is not the tree we're looking for.

MATT: Trinket backs up towards you.

LAURA: Come back in.

MATT: (squish, grunts) Dives into the necklace.

MARISHA: The whole time, us who were waiting have been do-si-do-ing around each other. We don't stop moving, so we're dancing in circles.

MATT: It's like you're lagging. All right, what are you doing, Vex?

LAURA: So it's a tree that looks like there's people living in it? It's a window looking out?

MATT: It seems to have an interior and some sort of warm firelight from the inside.

LAURA: That's definitely a fairy tree. I'm going to stay clear. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back to the party and tell them what I see.

MATT: All right. Vex returns from out of the shadows of the forest, no Trinket in tow.

LAURA: Trinket died.

SAM: Oh my god!

LAURA: You're a dick. I'm joking. I think it's fairies. I think we should probably stay clear. It looked like there were things living in the tree. It doesn't look like the cancerous tree.

TALIESIN: They may know where we want to go, though.

MARISHA: The pixies and fairies haven't been that nice.

TALIESIN: I'm not saying they're nice. I'm saying that maybe we need some new guidance.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Look, maybe if you let me talk to them–

LAURA: How about no diplomacy from you. Maybe Scanlan should go talk to them.

SAM: I could talk to them, but I want to know what they are first. We should do some recon and at least see what kind of creature they are. I can't just knock on a door. What if it's a crazy monster that pops its head out?

TRAVIS: Then it eats you.

TALIESIN: We'll shoot you first. You won't feel anything.

SAM: I'll go up and talk, but aren't you curious?

TALIESIN: No, not really.

TRAVIS: I've got your back. I'll go with you.

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Why?!

TALIESIN: We'll send Trinket, too, so either way, you feel like you've accomplished something. You'll both die, and then you'll know that the bear goes with you.

MARISHA: It's a bonding trip.

ASHLEY: Do you want me to stay with you on the broom?

SAM: Yes!

LAURA: Oh, wait, you're taking the broom?

(laughter)

SAM: Do you care more about the broom than me?

TALIESIN: Don't answer that.

SAM: You've known me for years! You just met the broom!

ASHLEY: Maybe we can land there, and then we can send the broom back to you.

SAM: No, I need the broom to get away!

TALIESIN: That's a fair point.

TRAVIS: In order to stay alive, you need to be near the broom.

TALIESIN: We'll keep an eye out, Vex. It'll be fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah, the two gnomes go. They're not very intimidating.

LAURA: I do not like this plan at all.

TALIESIN: You are charming. You're both very charming, so be charming.

ASHLEY: I'm not that charming.

TALIESIN: You're extremely charming.

MARISHA: I think you find her charming.

TALIESIN: She is charming.

MARISHA: I find her charming, too, but it doesn't mean that other people might.

SAM: What could possibly go wrong?

LAURA: Can I go on the broom with you, Scanlan?

TRAVIS: No! Let the little bits go.

MARISHA: We're still doing a do-si-do, by the way, while we're having this conversation.

TRAVIS: Little bits go.

SAM: All right, Pikey. Let's go knock on the door and get killed.

LAURA: If you fucking get my broom lost because you told me not to go, I'm going to murder you. And this is not in character. This is me telling you that.

TRAVIS: I just want to say, that was a death threat in front of a thousand people.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I think with this many witnesses, it's not a threat. It's a promise.

MARISHA: Is there a nearby tree that I can climb into?

MATT: There are a number of trees in the vicinity, yes. Where this thing is, though, there is about a 30-foot distance between it and any other trees. It's in the center of a small clearing.

TALIESIN: I want a good vantage.

MARISHA: Yeah. I get into a vantage point. I get up into a tree, and while they go do their recon, I want to cast Commune With Nature.

MATT: All right. So as you ascend the side of the nearest tree, and it resembles Atreyu climbing up the tree in the Swamp of Sadness, as it's these large gnarled branches and bits of muck and dust falling off the sides, and the oil slick that is surrounding the base makes it difficult to find your handholds, but you do eventually get your way up into the tree over the next five to ten minutes. You were going to cast Commune with Nature, you said?

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: All right. What do you want to ask?

MARISHA: Do I sense a cancerous tree in the area?

MATT: You're asking this of the tree? Or is this the land around you, right?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm not asking the tree.

MATT: You concentrate for a second. You feel yourself link with the land, and it's a very jarring sensation. You're used to connecting with nature being this serene, wonderful experience. This is like plugging into a nightmare. Suddenly, your thought process is filled with this ever-drawn sense of dread. You feel this cold sensation fill your form, and you manage to get this information across, but it leaves this very hollow feeling in the center of your being. Feeling out, you do not sense a cancerous tree, but you do sense the strengthening presence of the source of this entire swamp's perpetual destitution and slow decay, further to the northwest of this.

MARISHA: Northwest. Okay. So I can safely assume that the tree that they're heading towards is not cancerous.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: So we should call them back.

MARISHA: I'm meditating. Then can I get a general lay of the land and sense running water and rivers, so we can avoid those?

MATT: Okay. In feeling any source of bodies of water, you're too far from the Gilded Run to sense any of that, and there is no running water within the actual Shademirk. Everything is a very slow-rolling sludge from the direction that you initially sensed. It's this perpetual billowing of slow, crawling death. What little bit of running water you would sense is deep underground, and probably still in danger, over the next 50 years or so, of being corrupted itself.

MARISHA: Oh. Okay. For my last question, can I get a sense on any big evil things that might want to kill us?

MATT: You need to be a little more specific than that.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Everything. More specific that I won't screw it up. Are there Twinkies? Are there any more large crocodile dudes living under the– I don't know. Any more large things living under the swamp?

MATT: So you do a sense for large, dangerous plant life entities like that crocodile.

MARISHA: Yes, under the swamp. Well, wherever. Just blanket it.

MATT: As you extend your presence, you get no images or any sense of creatures like that crocodile. However, you do sense a rather intense presence throughout this bog at certain places of other corrupted plant life entities.

MARISHA: Does the tree in front of us count as a corrupted plant life entity? And none of the pixies that live in there are showing up on my radar as bad?

MATT: No. That's your final question. The spell fades. You climb your way back down out of the branches of the tree.

MARISHA: This place sucks.

LAURA: What did you see?

MARISHA: It's so sad. The trees are so sad.

LAURA: Anything useful?

TRAVIS: They're sad, or they're angry also?

MARISHA: A little bit of both.

LAURA: Should we call the gnomes back?

MARISHA: They're fine.

(laughter)

MARISHA: The presence of the distortion and the corruption is getting stronger northeast.

TRAVIS: Then we should all go. We shouldn't just send the little bits in there, we should all go.

LAURA: I don't want to fight anymore before we get to whatever it is that we're getting to.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: Have the gnomes already been set on their path at this time?

SAM: We're already cruising.

MATT: Yep. So as you guys are having this discussion, the broom slowly glides up to the outside of this tree. As you get close to it, you notice, too, from your immediate position, that mass of dried roots and branches that are up top are threaded together with rope. There is definitely construction to this, almost like a wooden thatched roof. The side porthole you see does have a wooden crossbeam in the center. It is definitely a functional and pretty well-crafted window for this rather rough exterior. The roots of the tree, though it is not very tall, it is thick. It is round. It's probably a good 25, 30 feet wide, this tree's trunk, and the roots are large and sink deep into the ground in the vicinity. You see the glow from the window. What do you want to do?

LAURA: Don't do it.

SAM: What? Who said that? What?

TRAVIS: Attack the tree.

SAM: I'm getting mixed messages.

ASHLEY: Scanlan, I'm a little nervous about these ropes. What if they're trying to catch us or something?

TALIESIN: How many windows are there?

MATT: One from what you can see.

TALIESIN: Just one window?

LAURA: Don't do it.

SAM: You're not there.

MARISHA: I think Vex might be right.

LAURA: Come back.

SAM: Come back? Should we do a fly by the window to see what's inside?

LAURA: Don't even fly close to the tree. I have really bad feelings about this.

SAM: Fly by the window and peek in.

LAURA: Fucking shit mother bitch!

MATT: What do you do?

SAM: Using our expert flying skills, we're going to fly by the window and do one of these, and check out the Berenstain Bears and then run.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

SAM: Not good. Eight.

ASHLEY: Wait. Okay. I think I just have so much mud in my eye I don't see anything.

MATT: Okay. You don't pick up a lot of detail, but as you come up over the top, looking on the inside, it looks to be rather comfortable, surprisingly. It's a small home. There's a table, and there's a small hearth. There appears to be what looks to be a shelf of some kind, ramshackle, maybe, but still functional, with books pressed into it. You can see a number of small baskets hanging from the ceiling, containing various roots and other pieces of plant matter that are gathered and bundled together. You can see there is a fireplace by the hearth. There is also a series of drying animal carcasses hung in the corner that are all stripped, and they're being aired out in that space. You also see what looks to be a large chair that is facing the hearth, slightly away from you, and a small end table next to it that contains a little teacup and a little tea set.

SAM: They look nice.

TALIESIN: What size person is the chair for?

SAM: Small?

MATT: Actually, the chair is pretty large. It's tall. The tea set is small. And as you're making a look, you see one large crooked hand reach out from behind the chair with impossibly long fingers with hooked nails reach over. You can see what looks like dried wrappings hanging from parts of its wrist and elbow as it reaches over and wraps its gnarled fingers around this tiny teacup and pull it back behind the chair.

TALIESIN: Do you describe this?

SAM: I don't. I see it and I turn around and I say: Pike, let's get out of here.

MATT: At this point, you hear a snap sound, and next to you, you hear this (creak) as a little bit of light peeks out to your left. A door has slowly opened on the side of the tree trunk.

ASHLEY: Guys? Guys!

LAURA: Please fly fucking back right now! Please!

ASHLEY: What do you want to do, Scanlan?

SAM: We bolt. We bolt for it.

ASHLEY: (hacking spit)

SAM: (hacking spit) And start flying.

MATT: Flying where?

SAM: Back to our friends.

MATT: Okay. You guys turn and begin making your way back towards the party, and the broom slows.

ASHLEY: Oh no.

(laughter)

LAURA: How far away is it?

MATT: It comes to a stop and then drops out from under you both (squish) into the sludge.

ASHLEY: Okay. That's okay.

SAM: I grab Pike, and we both go invisible.

ASHLEY: I pick up the broom before we go invisible.

MATT: All right, and you're casting Invisibility?

SAM: Invisibility. I guess at one level higher, right? Is that what I do?

MATT: I believe that's what you do to get more of that. Making sure real fast, so we don't mess this up.

SAM: Level three Invisibility.

TALIESIN: Her house is going to have chicken feet.

(laughter)

MATT: You both turn invisible, her clutching the broom.

ASHLEY: What?

MATT: You're both invisible now. You're clutching the broom.

ASHLEY: We're invisible and the broom is invisible?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: I go (surprised shriek).

SAM: We start tip-toeing out, I suppose.

MATT: You watch them vanish ahead of you. A few moments pass, and you guys end up making your way back to the group, and you see the (squish) footfalls of both of your tiny gnome friends.

TALIESIN: I am watching that hag through my scope with everything I've got.

MATT: From your perspective, you can't really see anything through the window. You're just going off of what they've told you, which has been very little. You're looking into the side of the window, and all you see is a little bit of flicker of firelight. That's it.

ASHLEY: I go up to Vex and I give her her broom.

LAURA: (relieved noises)

(cheering)

TRAVIS: What did you find? Oh. (whispering) What did you find?

ASHLEY: There's a woman. It looked like it was really nice, and then there was this really cute tea set, and then this crazy hand came out.

TRAVIS: That sounds terrible.

ASHLEY: She looks really scary.

MARISHA: Was she really tall? Do you know if she was tall?

ASHLEY: The chair was really big. I mean, anybody's tall to us.

MARISHA: That is true.

ASHLEY: Yeah, she was very large.

TRAVIS: Super important question: Did they see you?

ASHLEY: I think probably.

SAM: Well, the broom stopped flying.

LAURA: What do you mean?

TALIESIN: Run.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: Are you saying we should hide, Percy?

TALIESIN: We should go.

TRAVIS: Where?

MATT: Clutching the broom in your hands, as you emit the phrase that you've known to bring it to vibrant magical life…

(groaning)

MARISHA: Oh no.

(laughter)

MATT: The broom jumps to life.

(cheering and laughter)

LAURA: Thank you, Matt, for saving a marriage.

ASHLEY: Oh my god.

MATT: And there, backing up from this abode in the center of the Shademirk bog, your broom retrieved, your party members gathered, looking towards that glowing window, and now the ajar door inviting you in to some degree, we'll pick this up next session.

(cheering and applause)

MATT: Well, that was fun. Thank you guys so much for joining us for this. We're going to go ahead and take a few minutes here and do a short Q and A with those of you guys we have here in the stage before we need to clean up here, and we'll do the meet and greet upstairs. That being the case, do we have a set-up over there with the microphone to ask questions?

SAM: Have we stopped broadcasting?

MATT: Oh, that's right.

LAURA: Dude, you have to say good-bye.

MATT: That's right. Well, before we begin this Q and A, I want to thank you all for watching and tuning in. Thank you all so much. We'll be back next week, Thursday at our regular time slot and schedule. Thank you for joining us this Saturday, and yeah. Is it Thursday yet? 

MATT: And welcome back to tonight's episode. So, picking up where we left off, Vox Machina, having to find and collect the artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence to prepare themselves for battle against the Chroma Conclave, a group of extremely dangerous chromatic dragons who are wreaking havoc on the Tal'Dorei countryside, and get vengeance for the loss of Vex and Vax's father in the past. Er, sorry, mother. The father's still around, and kind of a dick.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: It's been a long week. However, you guys have been making your way into the Feywild in search of a specific item known as Fenthras, a bow of which Vex has been sort of keeping an eye on this whole time.

LAURA: Ahh, totally.

MATT: Just like that. (laughs) We're all having Gen Con plague residual, here. They've made their way through a number of strange, dangerous, and awkward encounters in the Feywild, including an encounter with their father, I meant to say earlier, in Syngorn, which is currently hiding out in the Feywild until they've prepared for battle against Thordak the Cinder King. You went to the Moonbrush and parleyed between pixies and werewolves, you pushed past the Gilded Run, a series of enchanted, dangerous rivers that keep the Shademirk Bog in check from spreading across the land with its corruption, and you stepped into the Shademirk Bog, its strange, sludgey, black, corrupt interior, stumbling upon what appears to be a small hovel built out of a tree trunk. The gnomes, making their way towards via Vex's broom, caught a partial glimpse of the creature that lived within, a door was suddenly opened, and upon floating back, the broom was robbed of its magical enchantment temporarily. The party regathered and are now deciding what to do here in the depths of the Shademirk Bog. So, as the gnomes have returned, your broom has seemingly been proven to still function–

LAURA: Don't say 'seemingly'.

MATT: Why? It's fun.

LAURA: Don't say 'seemingly'.

MATT: It's fun.

MARISHA: We confirmed.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: What would you guys like to do?

SAM: All right, so that place over there, the hut.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: I think it was not a good idea to go over there. I think it's one of the things that what's-his-fuck warned us about.

LAURA: Garmelie?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: The hag, right?

SAM: I don't know. I wasn't really paying attention.

LAURA: Yeah, no, he warned us about…

TALIESIN: I'm feeling the hag. Is anybody else feeling the hag?

SAM: Something about a hut.

LAURA: I am not feeling the hag.

LIAM: I'm not feeling the hag.

MARISHA: How do you mean? Yeah, how do you mean, feeling?

LIAM: I've had enough hag.

TALIESIN: We're not feeling the hag, but I think we should avoid her.

LAURA: The Hut of Wodenna.

MARISHA: The Hut of Wodenna, right.

SAM: Yeah, that's probably Wodenna.

LAURA: It could be.

SAM: So why don't we go around the hut? Is that possible? Is Garmelie gone?

LAURA: Garmelie's gone.

MATT: Garmelie left, you guys.

SAM: Oh yeah.

TRAVIS: Peaced out.

MATT: He wouldn't even enter the forest with you.

LAURA: However, she is aware of our presence, now, isn't she?

SAM: So? We're big and scary. She's a little old lady.

LIAM: What's the terrain like around this hut?

MATT: The forests of the Shademirk Bog is a very very thickly wooded swamp with thick-trunked trees and almost weeping willow-type sagging canopies, but the entirety of each piece of brush here is coated and seemingly seeping this kind of black sticky tar-like ichor that just kind of pools and seeps into the ground, so even traversing this territory's been a slow, arduous process. There is a small clearing around where this tree trunk hovel is currently located, and the tree itself does not appear to match the surrounding trees that kind of embody most of this forest terrain.

LIAM: Does it look possible to skirt around it from where we are?

MATT: You could skirt around it, most definitely, yeah. It's just something you saw in the distance and went and inspected, you could avoid it entirely.

LIAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: And we do have a direction to move.

LAURA: Yeah, we know, we know that is not where the bow is.

MARISHA: Yes, it was on Garmelie's list of things to avoid.

SAM: But maybe she could help us in a way.

LAURA: I know, it's so terrible! I want to like explore everything here because–

MARISHA: I wonder if she knows the other hags that we've encountered.

LAURA: Forsythia…

SAM: It's like that urge when you're standing at the edge of a cliff, like part of your body wants to jump a little bit?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: I kinda wanna go in there.

LAURA: Kind of like when I dove into the river.

SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: Yeah, exactly.

MARISHA: Well, see, you guys did kind of jump, and it didn't feel good, right?

LAURA: Right, true.

TRAVIS: Devil's advocate.

MARISHA: So…

TRAVIS: What if she's lonely, and two, what if she's not the hag and she knows where the hag is?

MARISHA: One, I'm certain she is lonely, and two, she's probably the hag.

TALIESIN: I'm pretty sure she's the hag.

MARISHA: She's definitely probably the hag.

LIAM: We've kind of already had this conversation before we went and poked a badger with those floating instruments, we really don't need to do every single thing.

LAURA: No, we don't, we really don't.

TRAVIS: I'm just saying you're profiling, is all.

LIAM: And I have a bad history with hags, and I would like–

LAURA: Yes, you do.

LIAM: –to skip this fucking place.

TALIESIN: I'm okay with that. I, honestly I could use a bit of sleep at some point and I think moving in the correct direction, getting a bit of sleep somewhere safe…

LAURA: And we've been do-si-doing the whole time we've been having this conversation, definitely.

TALIESIN: I'm working on that as well.

MARISHA: I feel like we're trying to talk ourselves out of this, aren't we?

LAURA: I think we need to not go towards the hut.

MARISHA: Okay, we'll not go towards the hut.

LAURA: To the tree, to scariness.

TALIESIN: If there was a time to not be us, this is the moment.

MARISHA: It's probably now.

LAURA: This is that time.

TALIESIN: Right now.

TRAVIS: I take out the javelin of lightning.

ALL: No!

SAM: You have a javelin of lightning?

LAURA: He does.

TRAVIS: I do.

TALIESIN: He does, in fact, have a javelin of lightning.

SAM: Why have you never used a javelin of lightning?

LAURA: He has, he has one time. Don't.

TRAVIS: And I, I just make sure that it's clean and put it back.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Let's just sneakily go off and just not pay any more attention to this charming little tree.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: I feel like we've done enough damage for one day.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we've gotta at least come back this way, so, you know.

LAURA: This is true. Ugh.

MATT: All righty. You guys–

TRAVIS: We go around. Stealthily.

LAURA: Stealthily walk away from the hut.

TRAVIS: Do we still have Pass Without a Trace?

LAURA: Do we still have Pass Without a Trace going, or do I need–no, it dropped, it dropped.

MATT: You traveled quite a while, yeah.

LAURA: Because we fought something, so I would need to cast it again. Which I do! Cast again. Pass Without a Trace.

SAM: Thank you!

LAURA: Um, maybe Dust of Tracelessness behind us so the hag doesn't feel tempted to maybe follow in our footsteps.

TRAVIS: Don't tell me what to do, devil-woman. I take out the Dust of Tracelessness. It looks good, I put it back.

LAURA: Grog, please, flower-girl, please.

TRAVIS: Javelin or Dust of Tracelessness, they go together. If I do one, I do the other.

LAURA: You're terrible. That's terrible.

TRAVIS: I need a little danger in my life.

TALIESIN: I promise you, we're going to kill something very soon.

LAURA: Soon!

TRAVIS: There's a giant werewolf following us…

LAURA: We just killed the crocodile plant. We just killed a crocodile plant.

MARISHA: That's true.

LAURA: Seriously, we just fought something.

MARISHA: You were inside his gut. You have to remember that.

LAURA: Just did that.

TRAVIS: I didn't really hit it that much, it was very unsatisfying.

(All laugh.)

LAURA: Let's walk away.

LAURA: I wanna stealth.

MATT: All right. Everyone make a stealth check.

MARISHA: All right. New d20.

LAURA: Oh, high hopes!

TRAVIS: Did you say Pass Without a Trace?

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace, I cast Pass Without a Trace.

TALIESIN: Huh. That's weird.

MARISHA: That's a dick move. That is a–

TALIESIN: That's weird.

LAURA: Did you get a 20, did you get a 20 on it?

TALIESIN: I got a 19.

LAURA: Aw.

MARISHA: He got a 19 and I got a three.

LAURA: Oh, come on.

(All laugh.)

LAURA: That's just not cool.

MATT: That's actually pretty funny.

SAM: That's one better than before!

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Are these new opal dice?

MARISHA: It's a step in the right direction.

LAURA: They are.

TRAVIS: They switched, yeah.

SAM: New dice.

LAURA: There's no excuse now.

MATT: All right, so.

LAURA: I think it's just a curse on you, Marisha.

MATT: Stealth.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: 25. Vax?

LIAM: Did we use the Dust of Tracelessness?

LAURA: No, we used Pass Without a Trace, though, so add ten.

LIAM: No? Well, I will settle for a 27.

MATT: Okay, with a plus ten?

LIAM: No, I, didn't we use–

LAURA and TRAVIS: Pass Without a Trace.

MATT: Pass Without a Trace was used.

LIAM: I just, oh, all right.

LAURA and MATT: You said Dust of Tracelessness.

LIAM: Oh, 37.

MATT: Lotta traces going on, it's fine. Plus ten added, so 37.

LAURA: 36.

MATT: 36.

MARISHA: 20.

TALIESIN: 35.

SAM: 30.

MATT: All right, and Pike…

LAURA: Pike!

MATT: All right.

(All laugh.)

MATT: Ehhh, natural three. It's okay. You guys make your way around the outskirts of this kind of open glade area, scooting by. As you begin to separate, finally getting to a point where the direction you're trying to head, where you noticed seemingly all the liquid that's seeping from, the actual movement, momentum of the horrible black material was like pushing slowly outward from apparently some center place? You follow that slow flow best you can. As you begin to pull away, you hear a slight creak sound in the distance.

(creaking)

LAURA: No. Can we see if the door shut?

TRAVIS: Hide! I hide.

LAURA: Did the door shut?

MATT: Perception check.

LIAM: Yeah, perception.

LAURA: Um. 25.

MATT: You look back over your shoulder and notice the door just (creaking, bang) and closes.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Fuck.

LAURA: No, that's…

MATT: As it closes–

TRAVIS: She's out here now.

MATT: –there's a sudden flash of wind, and there's a flicker in Pike's form as all of a sudden she (flickering sound)

LAURA: No!

MATT: (As Pike) Guys?

MATT: And her divine form vanishes in place, apparently sent back to the source of where she projected her essence.

LAURA: She didn't get, like, stolen or something?

LIAM: That is never not unsettling.

LAURA: Away?

MATT: Uh, not to your knowledge. It's similar to the previous times that she's been unable to keep her form there for you. Especially between planes, you can imagine it's been rather difficult for her to be here for the time she has.

LAURA: Maybe the hag cast a Dispel she did on the broom?

MARISHA: Yeah, Dispel Magic.

TALIESIN: Or maybe things just got strange.

MARISHA: Poor reception.

SAM: Something I said.

LAURA: Love you, Pike.

TRAVIS: Something you said. (laughs)

LAURA: Definitely something you said.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Can we see the hag moving inside the hut through the window?

MATT: You make a perception check as you're glancing that way.

TRAVIS: Can I look for Ukurat?

MATT: Perception check.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LAURA: Seriously?

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: 14? You see movement on the inside, but no actual physical bead on an entity. You just see the light being broken in the window.

LAURA: Okay, so she's…

MARISHA: Yeah, she's inside.

LAURA: That's good.

TRAVIS: A gigantic 11.

SAM: You've yet to break single digits with them.

TALIESIN: New die.

MATT: You barely notice anything beyond the trees, you have to remind yourself, oh, there's a house there. But.

(Laura laughs.)

TRAVIS: That sounds accurate.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Who are these people, like, (gasps).

LAURA: Keyleth, what direction was the big scary blight on the land?

MARISHA: Northeast?

SAM: Northwest.

MATT: Northwest.

MARISHA: Northwest. Northwest.

LAURA: So we head that direction.

MARISHA: This direction.

MATT: All right. (laughs)

MARISHA: This direction.

MATT: Following Keyleth's lead, you guys begin to slowly make your way through this bog and–

LAURA: Keep an eye out for anything moving.

MATT: Everything's slowly moving in its own right, this kind of (sludgey sound)

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: Easy there, tiger.

MATT: Sliding of awful liquid.

LAURA: Anything seemingly aggressive.

MATT: Understood.

TRAVIS: Don't shoot any trees.

MATT: As you kind of push further, further northward, you guys are having… do you have to sneeze?

LAURA: It went away.

MATT: Okay, good. You get the sensation, it's not even a sensation, the rest of the party – aside from you– you guys are getting knee-deep in this liquid now, and it's to the point where you're having to take one step, lurch it out of the liquid onto another, and you're having to go out of your way to kind of hug the edges of trees where the roots themselves are protruding to give yourself some kind of foothold as opposed to getting stuck in this bog. You, Scanlan, are having a particularly rough time trying to walk on your own, because with each… though with your light form, it's a lot of strength to even pull your little feet out of this tar-like substance. So.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Pimps-a-lot, you wanna?

SAM: Absolutely.

TRAVIS: Okay.

TRAVIS: Can I pick him up? And it's black stuff, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I smell the black stuff on him?

MATT: Yeah, I mean, it permeates the area but it's particularly strong at his feet and lower extremities, almost went up to his upper thighs. It is a, it smells like a combination of wet blacktop, sulfur, and compost decay.

TRAVIS: Yeah, in the summer?

MATT: Yeah, like a hot, hot, Florida compost, yeah.

TRAVIS: I know that exact, accurate smell.

MATT: Yeah. It's delightful.

SAM: Drakkar.

TRAVIS: You smell terrible.

SAM: Sorry.

LAURA: That's a lot, coming from Grog.

SAM: That is true.

TRAVIS: How about you, I'll put you on my shoulder, but how about you sit on my shoulder like strapped back there and just hang out the back?

SAM: Sit on your shoulder straps.

TRAVIS: No, don't put your feet near my face, like hang out on the back of me.

SAM: All right, all right. Thank you for the lift.

TRAVIS: No worries.

LAURA: It's good, you can keep an eye out for the hag following behind us.

SAM: That's good. Wait, am I like being Yoda-carried right now?

(All laugh.)

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: I'm flipping and climbing vines and shit.

MARISHA: Oh man, that makes me want a Scanlan backpack. Oh man.

MATT: Okay. As you guys push on forward, Keyleth guiding the direction, you're the only one who moves without an issue. Are you tracking ahead of the party, or are you staying with them?

LAURA: I am tracking a little bit ahead of them.

MATT: All right. You travel for about another hour or so forward, and you, just being naturally alert as you are, notice some shift of movement that is more sudden than the slow sway of some of the various branches and boughs of nearby trees. A little bit in the direction you're traveling and to the left.

LAURA: What did it look like? Just movement?

MATT: It moves again, and you see what appears to be some almost large rock-like figure that's shifting, and the more you take a moment to focus, it looks like a humanoid-type creature hunched over, facing away from you.

LAURA: (mouthing) We should go, we should go that way. Can I point everybody to go around, keeping a wide berth?

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Lead the way.

LAURA: Percy, look over there with your eyesight, look through your little scope and see what you see.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna try and scope it.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check with advantage.

TALIESIN: Ugh. Could be worse. 16.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Okay. You, um. You take a moment and kind of train on this movement. You now see there are two figures that are facing each other, and they themselves are covered in this horrible liquid, and you recognize the form a little bit. These, they're humanoid, but they have long, exaggerated jaws, very long forearm limbs, tall, straggly black hair, long, pointed hooked nose, and they're both eating something that's partially stuck in this bog. These are trolls, these are two large trolls that are currently in the process of eating some sort of creature.

TALIESIN: A pair of trolls.

LAURA: (whispering) We need to be very quiet.

MATT: You've had a piece of troll in your bag for a while.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: Oh yeah. Troll dick.

LAURA: So we've killed them before, that's good to know.

TRAVIS: Yeah. They're huge.

MATT: Trolls are pretty big.

LAURA: They were–

TRAVIS: About how big are they?

MATT: Like… I'd say, even with the hunch, nine feet tall.

LAURA: Yeah. Just… you know, maybe go around?

SAM: Yes, we should go around.

LAURA: What do you think?

SAM: We could kill them quite easily.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Well, there's two of them that we see.

TALIESIN: That we see.

TRAVIS: Hey, Percy.

LIAM: They're stupid, aren't they?

LAURA: Didn't, wait–

MARISHA: I don't know.

LAURA: Didn't Tiberius turn into a lady-troll?

TALIESIN: That was a thing, yes.

MARISHA: That happened.

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: To be fair, also, everything in the Feywild–

SAM: What?

MARISHA: – has been more sensitive, defensive, and more intelligent.

LAURA: They could be smarter.

TALIESIN: They could be smart trolls.

LAURA: They could be, like, hag trolls, which is just terrifying.

TALIESIN: They're eating something that's stuck.

LAURA: Which could be us very soon.

TALIESIN: Which could be us very soon.

LAURA: We need to keep moving.

TALIESIN: Let's keep moving.

LAURA: The longer we stand still, the more stuck we get.

MATT: You hear this (grunt) in the distance, and you now, looking through your scope, you see that one of them has looked up from its eating, its mouth covered in all sorts of shiny, fresh liquid, and it kind of glances past. Its eyes, the pupils are white against yellow eyes, so it has this very kind of flash across a cat's face type gleam across the eyeballs. They kind of… (grunts)

LIAM: Can we all see this?

MATT: Yeah, you guys can see, since you've all made note of these creatures in the distance.

LIAM: Why don't we back it up slow for once?

LAURA: Well, how about we don't move at all right now?

MARISHA: Everybody freeze.

MATT: Turns around, (trollish grunt), says something to the other one. They both grab a big chunk of whatever they're eating, jam it in their mouth, and then dive down into the muck.

SAM: Oh, shit.

LAURA: Can we get up in the trees?

MATT: If you'd like to try and climb them.

LAURA: Can we try and climb the trees?

TALIESIN: We're going to try and climb a tree.

SAM: To what end? Then we're just gonna sit here forever?

TALIESIN: For a minute.

LAURA: Well no, we can go from tree branch to tree branch. Are they tightly enough connected that we can travel on the top of the trees?

MATT: Possibly. Might require some jumping.

SAM: I am a backpack right now.

LAURA: I'm gonna get on the broom and fly up.

MATT: You fly up.

LIAM: I'll climb after her.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check, if you don't mind, Vax.

TRAVIS: I'm not scared of trolls.

LIAM: 18.

SAM: Could you be, please?

MATT: It takes you a minute, but you manage to get up to the tree. You come up into the trees. Do you break the canopy, or do you stop up at the branches?

LAURA: I wanted to… yeah, sure, I'll break the canopy.

MATT: Okay. As you're climbing up, your sister actually goes past where the branches, leaves, and the top of the trees end. Before you can really kind of speak out to question, she disappears. You, Vex, come shooting up off the top out, and you can see now before you the Shademirk in its entirety, kind of wrapping around the base of this one mountain, that kind of comes up into two sharp peaks, like horns on some sort of a large debased devil, but it's just a formless rock mold that comes up into those two peaks. Looking around you, you can see the trees are very, very dense and heavily packed together, and what immediately catches your eye is about two, three miles ahead, right towards where the base of the mountain seems to sink into the Shademirk, there is one very, very large tree that stands above the rest of them.

LAURA: Oh, shit. Why didn't I go above the canopy before?

MARISHA: Is it to the northwest?

MATT: It is what would be considered to the northwest of you. It, whereas the rest of the Shademirk continues to this relative 20-, 30-foot-tall canopy, this tree probably goes up about a hundred-plus feet and the branches string outward and have long strands and vines dangling from them, it's, this is a massive example of local flora and fauna.

LAURA: Wow. Okay. I say, I see the tree! And I come back down into the canopy.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can I come down and grab… Keyleth? And lift her up into the tree too?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Ooh.

TRAVIS: How high are the lowest branches?

MATT: The lowest branches are about seven feet up.

TRAVIS: You wanna lift?

SAM: I'm just a passenger. I'm on you. If you're not going up, I'm staying on you.

TRAVIS: I'm not going up.

LAURA: You're not gonna go up in the tree?

SAM: We're gonna–

TRAVIS: You think my giant ass is gonna jump frockily-fucky-fucky from branch to branch in the treetops like some kind of acrobat?

LAURA: I don't know.

TRAVIS: No! No.

SAM: We're standing our muck.

MARISHA: Well, okay, is what we're trying to do figure out a way to not have to walk in the muck?

LAURA: Yeah, I think so.

MARISHA: You're–

LAURA: I feel like the trolls are gonna pop up, like, somewhere near us.

TRAVIS: Can I put my back against a tree?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: A large tree.

MATT: Yeah. The nearest tree, the one that Vax actually climbed up, is the one that's closest to you guys, and it's close enough for you to just take a five-foot step back up into it.

SAM: I'm back here! I'm back here, I'm back here, I'm back here!

LAURA: You're against the tree.

TRAVIS: I turn around. The trees talk.

SAM: It's me. Don't back up into a tree–

TRAVIS: I spin around again and put my back to this tree.

SAM: I'm still back here! I'm still back here!

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: While that's going on, can I fly down and get Percy out of the muck and bring him up into the tree?

MATT: Sure.

LIAM: I'm gonna chime in over the earring and say, Somebody could turn Grog into a marmoset or something, that would work for the circumstances.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: That's what I was gonna say, I can always polymorph you for a moment, Grog.

TRAVIS: I might be down with being some kind of monkey.

MARISHA: You want to be a monkey? Yeah. What kind of monkey?

TRAVIS: Gorilla.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: And I turn Grog into a gorilla.

MATT: And with that, Grog's already pretty large form just grows smaller and hairier.

TRAVIS: Nimble as shit.

LAURA: What the fuck! I should get Scanlan…

MATT: You look down at yourself and kind of marveling at your hands, which haven't changed too much other than the place some of the fingers and thumbs, you already have pretty big, strong, hands, but you also pull up one of your feet from the muck and you can see the additional appendage that you now have in the prehensile toes.

LAURA: Grog, get in the tree, get in the tree.

TALIESIN: I don't see a change, I'm not sure.

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Tree.

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Please.

TRAVIS: Grog.

LAURA: Aw.

SAM: Also has the mind of an ape.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Seriously?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Which might be more intelligent than what he was before…

MATT: Actually, let's…

TRAVIS: Ah, shit.

MATT: Let's have a look what the–

TRAVIS: Gorillas can't–

MATT: Let's see, let's pull up the Monster Manual here and see exactly what we're working with.

LAURA: Gorillas are pretty fucking smart.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you have one, don't you?

MARISHA: I think I do.

LAURA: I think they'd be smarter than Grog.

MARISHA: I do, but I don't have it in my little book.

LAURA: They can learn sign language, they have, like, an entire, yeah.

LIAM: Strongjaw's kitten?

LAURA: Oh!

MATT: All right, we'll go with the stats for an ape, 'cause that's what's here and available. They do have intelligence of six, so you are as intelligent as you were before.

(All laugh.)

TRAVIS: But I do this with my foot.

(All laugh.)

MARISHA: Looks good on you, Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna– can I?

MATT: No, you can't talk.

TRAVIS: (gorilla noises)

LAURA: Shit. Scanlan, do you want to ride on Grog's back still, or do you want to come up in the tree?

SAM: No, I don't–

TRAVIS: (gorilla noises)

MARISHA: Ooh, you'd be like a little silverback baby.

LAURA: Can I go down and grab Scanlan and put him on the broom with me?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: Thank you.

LIAM: Honestly, I can't even tell the difference.

TRAVIS: That still translates, right?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay, I know the twins are good on flying, for the most part.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll stay down here as bait.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah.

LIAM: I don't know, how long ago did you bust out my wings for me, DM? Under 24 hours?

MATT: Yeah, it's been under 24 hours. So unfortunately your wings are not available.

LAURA: No wings for you.

MARISHA: Well, but you can walk unhindered, right? You can walk fine?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: Can someone borrow your broom?

LAURA: Again? Yes.

MARISHA: Again. (laughs)

LAURA: Yeah, that worked really well last time. Totally. Somebody can.

MARISHA: Give it to your brother. He's trustworthy, right? Right? Right, Vax?

LAURA: He had the carpet before, so. Maybe not so much, but the whole point was for the trolls to not have us on the ground, the trolls, but.

MARISHA: Oh, right, that's true.

LAURA: Can we just try to travel amongst the trees?

TALIESIN: Let's see what happens.

SAM: Stick to the plan.

MARISHA: I'm gonna go ahead, I'm gonna use a Beastshape and I'm gonna go into an eagle form.

MATT: Okay. Giant eagle. All right. Beastshape is taken, he's gorillafied, you have Scanlan up on your broom.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: And then Vax and… Percy, are you just traveling through the canopy?

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: Or are you carrying somebody, Keyleth?

LAURA: Do you wanna carry Scanlan?

MARISHA: I can carry Scanlan.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: How thick are the trees here?

LAURA: I feel like we could–

MATT: They range anywhere from between five feet and–

LIAM: I had such a hard time when I flew up the other day, such a hard time…

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: And everyone's just floating up, easy as pie.

MARISHA: To be fair, I've been flying a lot longer than you have, Vax.

LAURA: That's true, and your wings are much larger than hers were.

MARISHA: It's true.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah. And I've got a skinny little broom, so I'm not flapping any wings.

LIAM: I'm skinnier than your broom.

LAURA: Yes, well.

(Marisha laughs.)

LIAM: Let's do it.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Then I guess I can take one of you on the broom with me.

TALIESIN: Take him. I'll be fine. I'm gonna, I have a potion of climbing.

LAURA: Do you wanna hop on this, since you have no flight?

MARISHA: Ooh, potion of climbing, nice.

LAURA: Brother?

MARISHA: All right, I fly over to Scanlan.

LIAM: No, but I will anyway.

SAM: I'm with you now?

MARISHA: (eagle sound)

LAURA: All right, he's on the broom with me.

MATT: All right, so the twins are on the broom, they go up. Grog, you just have a field day leaping through those branches, and just coasting through, keeping an eye best you can on the guiding broom above the actual tree canopy. You go ahead and grab Scanlan as well and follow suit.

MATT: As soon as you break up as well, you can see the large tree in the distance. Percy, doing the best you can to keep an eye on Grog or at least listen to that regard, you drink your potion of climbing and begin leaping off and kind of ninja-scattering your way through the higher branches of the trees as well.

TRAVIS: Anime shit.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah.

MATT: So if I can go ahead and get Grog and Percy to go ahead and make three successive athletics checks, if you could.

TALIESIN: With advantage?

MATT: This would be, for you it would be advantage, yeah.

TRAVIS: What's the modifier for king of the apes?

MATT: You know what, I'll give you advantage on this just 'cause you're an ape.

TALIESIN: Athletics or acrobatics?

MATT: Um. For the purposes of climbing and grabbing, I would say this is more of an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: Since this is more upper-body strength and–

LAURA: Not parkouring, not parkouring through the treetops.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

TRAVIS: That's a 20, 12 plus eight.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: 21.

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: All righty. Last one.

TRAVIS: Not so great. 23.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: All righty. To your surprise, as the potion energy surges through your body, even with the relatively slick surface that a lot of these branches and trees have, you have an innate ability to point out which ones are the strongest, easiest to grab a hold and just keep the momentum going in the semblance of a parkour-like leap-and-grab-type circumstance, you have managed to move through almost with the grace of the gorilla ahead of you. You lose sight a few times, but you guys do take the better part of the next forty minutes or so to eventually make your way closer and closer to the tree where the shadow, the shade of it against the permanently dusk sun now begins to creep over the place you are in the forest. You have now entered a shaded nightfall by the actual tree's location and placement. The lower forest below you is pitch-black at this point, other than a little bit of light that filters in from nearby lit areas of the forest.

(Audible feedback.)

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Oh?

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: There's a punk band warming up.

(All laugh.)

MATT: Never ends. There we go. You guys make your way towards, are you going straight for the tree or are you…?

LAURA: Okay. Do we wanna go straight for the tree now, or do we wanna like rest up before we do that?

TALIESIN: I think we want to observe it and rest up.

LIAM: Observe, yes.

MARISHA: Like scout?

LAURA: Watch it and see what's going on with it?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Before we just go straight to it?

TRAVIS: We don't have the mansion, right?

SAM: We have the mansion.

TALIESIN: We do. We have the mansion.

TRAVIS: (gorilla noise)

SAM: How many hours since we've slept last?

MATT: I'd say it's probably been, surmising, six to seven.

TALIESIN: Really? It's been since the river.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: So we can at least do some, we can get closer and do some recon.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Let's do recon, let's observe it for the next six to ten hours and then rest up in the shag.

LAURA: That's a long time. All right.

MARISHA: I go ahead and I take off with Scanlan and do kind of a high aerial loop around the tree.

SAM: (worried noise)

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Oh jeez, around the tree? Around it?

MARISHA: Just at the top, really high. Really high, getting nice–

LAURA: I wanna kind of perch on top of a tree nearby and just kind of see it from there.

MARISHA: Watch.

TALIESIN: I want to see if I can find the source of the bog muck.

MATT: Okay. You both make a perception check from being up in the tree.

SAM: Wait, tre– oh.

MARISHA: Do I have advantage because I'm an eagle?

MATT: Well, it would be–

SAM: Above the tree, yeah. Yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: Don't eagles have advantage?

SAM: Eight.

(All laugh.)

MARISHA: I do have advantage.

SAM: Just 'cause.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Eagle eyes.

MARISHA: Eagle eyes. 27.

MATT: 27. As you coast around the outside of this gargantuan tree, you can see there are a number of places where the branches meet and where elements of the bark are slightly split, and there is just a slow, perpetual flow of this black tar-like substance. You've seen it on smaller scales seeping from the trees in this actual forest, it's like the entirety of the landscape is kind of creating this, but the bulk of it, whether it be the source of the general corruption or at least is the largest central location of its source? There are a number of places throughout this tree where it's just seeping out like sap.

MARISHA: Like sap.

LAURA: Like bleeding out oil.

MATT: Out of the actual tree.

MARISHA: Like even the top of the tree and stuff.

LIAM: Like evil maple syrup.

MARISHA: Evil maple syrup, yeah.

LAURA: Mm, sounds tasty. Can–

TRAVIS: Like ghostbusters.

LAURA: – we see any kind of movement, any kind of things moving around the tree?

MATT: You don't see anything moving around the tree at the moment, other than just the gentle swaying as a little bit of wind hits the sides of it, portions of its long hundreds and hundreds of hanging vines just kind of slowly get moved and tangled by the windfall. If you want to make a perception check as well.

LAURA: Okay. That would be 30.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I got a natural 20. Using Luck.

MATT: Great. So the two twins up there on the broom, as you kind of glance around the other side, you both can see the branches themselves occasionally will shift and curl up, almost like an arm recoiling, and then relax slowly back out again, like a stretching arm held still for too long.

LAURA: Oh, shit. I think the tree is alive and not in a normal plant sort of way.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You also notice some of the vines that are wrapped around and kind of curled around these branches as well occasionally recoil and pull in and shift and move up, it's like there's a whole ecosystem based around numerous forms of plant life that cause this thing to almost act like a giant organism.

LAURA: Fuck, I do not wanna get close to that thing.

MARISHA: I know, that's intimidating.

LIAM: I'm gonna rest my chin on my sister's shoulder and just stare for a minute and say, you know, that bow is going to be reeeally cool.

LAURA: God, I hope so.

LIAM: Yeah. Worth it.

MARISHA: Still on my back, Scanlan, you wanna get closer?

SAM: I'm using my eight perception, I report to the others, it's just a normal tree, guys.

(All laugh.)

SAM: Nothing out of the ordinary, no movement, nothing. It's safe.

LAURA: Thanks, Scanlan. Your eyes, your eyes…

TRAVIS: Can I check myself for parasites?

MATT: You find a number of them, actually. They're delicious.

(All laugh.)

MATT: For the two of you that are below the treeline, you don't get a grand view above, it's too hard to see, but you guys make your way close to the actual base of the tree?

LAURA: Ugh! No! What? The base of the fucking tree?

LIAM: No, no.

LAURA: No fucking way, don't do that.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna get close enough to at least make out some detail.

MARISHA: And I'll do kind of a tighter loop around it.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: See if I can get any more details.

MATT: All right. Percy, you have to get pretty close to even get a view because of the density of the trees the closer you get to this. So you guys are probably going to have to get within 20, 30 feet to get a view of the exterior of the large tree.

LIAM: That's a bad idea.

LAURA: Yeah. Can we see him walking towards it?

MATT: No, you have no view of them this high in the canopy.

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: They're below the treeline. Percy, as you get closer you begin to notice that the actual roots of the tree almost come 10 feet up before they merge with the outside of the tree itself, a number of–

TALIESIN: Is it a solid trunk, or is it like a combined trunk?

MATT: It's a solid trunk in most of its places, but there are swaths of vines that wrap around it and curl and create these giant, tight nets, almost like a Rat King of tails across certain portions of its exterior near the base, and where some of the roots join with the central tree trunk.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna back up and try and find a place to scan the ground, find a place to put a door for our mansion.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Safe.

MATT: Okay, I mean, there are a number of areas that are somewhat clear on the ground, but there is no– All the landscape is coated with this molasses-type material, even the bits that aren't submerged and are relatively shallow, there is still that substance all across them.

MARISHA: I was doing a tighter loop.

MATT: Right.

MARISHA: Of the tree, see if I can get any more details that we haven't already seen.

MATT: Okay. Keeping your eyes out as best you can as you loop around a second time, you get closer, no real change in what you're able to observe. You have a higher detailed look at it, but once again, you see a number of these vine-clusters around the base of some of these branches, you see elements where the bark has split and sealed over and split again and just spills out more of this black filth.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You aren't able to make out any sort of other details about its surface.

MARISHA: I fly back to the others.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: Are you on the ground?

TALIESIN: No, but I'm close to it.

LAURA: Do you see any sort of animal life around the tree?

TALIESIN: Nothing, no.

LAURA: The only thing I've seen is actual branches moving like arms. I think the tree's alive.

TALIESIN: If I were animal life, I would live beneath the surface.

LAURA: Like the trolls.

TALIESIN: Like the trolls. I think there's quite possibly things that live in the muck. Probably not on top of it.

LAURA: Do you guys think maybe we should, um. We should get in the mansion and have a nice little chat and figure out what the fuck we're gonna do?

SAM: Sure. Sounds good to me.

TRAVIS: How do I not become a gorilla anymore?

LAURA: Yeah?

LIAM: Yeah. We want to be at full strength.

MATT: You don't.

MARISHA: It's up to me.

LIAM: Don't run in willy-nilly.

TRAVIS: I look at Keyleth and I go–

MATT: She doesn't see you, 'cause she's way above the trees and you're just kind of down in the forest as a gorilla going–

TRAVIS: I'm on the ground?

MATT: You're not on the ground, you're up in the actual tree top.

SAM: While we still have a, I'll phone down to Vex and Vax and Percy and say, while we still have a giant eagle, is there any point to us, to me and Kiki scanning back to where those trolls were and just making sure they're not following us or anything?

TALIESIN: No, although if you find a log approximately two feet thick, I could certainly use that.

SAM: A log?

TALIESIN: A log, about two feet thick.

LAURA: About how long, though?

TALIESIN: Doesn't matter.

LAURA: You wanna fly down? We fly down, I take the broom and try to find a log.

LIAM: Yeah, you're in control.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: All right, so the two of you kind of– make a perception check.

LAURA: (laughs) Yeah.

LIAM: Seventeen.

LAURA: That's interesting. I got fifteen.

MATT: Okay, uh.

LIAM: What a lackluster okay.

LAURA: Yeah, okay.

MATT: It takes you guys the better part of an hour to finally find a piece of abandoned dead tree husk from which you'll be able to carve a piece that matches the description of what Percy's requesting.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: Requires some cleaning, it is very thick with the actual tar, but you do manage to bring it back to him. A little larger than what you wanted, but it can be carved down.

TALIESIN: It's fine, I've got a thought, so I'm gonna try something.

MARISHA: I drop Grog's polymorph and my eagle form.

SAM: (screams as though falling)

MARISHA: …after I've landed.

SAM: Oh, okay.

MATT: Okay. You are back to your regular Grog self.

TRAVIS: My pants are down, as my hand was behind my bottom, just contemplating flinging some poo.

MATT: All right, and in that brief moment all of a sudden you are, well, some of your sense have come to you. Not much else has changed other than your physicality, but…

TRAVIS: Hi guys.

LAURA: Hi Grog.

LIAM: I think a little bit actually got out, buddy.

LAURA: Gross! Come on.

TRAVIS: It didn't, don't worry.

LAURA: So foul.

MATT: All right, so. You've all managed to reconvene a little ways off from the base of this large tree. What do you wish to do?

SAM: Should we–

LAURA: (singing) Mansion it up!

SAM: Yeah?

TALIESIN: I could use some sleep, and I've got a little thing to work on for the moment.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: What are you doing with this log, Percival? What is this for?

MARISHA: Is this what we were talking about that time?

TALIESIN: Swamp shoes.

MARISHA: Swamp shoes.

LAURA: Swamp shoes?

TALIESIN: I think some swamp shoes might not be a terrible idea.

MARISHA: I can help you with those.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Swamp shoes.

LAURA: So you can walk like me?

TALIESIN: Yes. I mean, not quickly, it won't help you walk quickly, it's not necessarily the most stealthy thing on earth, but you won't drop two feet into the muck every time you take a step.

LAURA: That's good.

TRAVIS: I've got a question. Can one of us that can turn into things go in the muck?

LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: Maybe.

LAURA: I feel like, is it bad? Do we get any kind of bad vibe, bad energy off the muck?

SAM: Other than it being black magic?

MATT: Roll an insight check.

TALIESIN: The muck is unhappy to be there.

MARISHA: That mud looked at me the wrong way.

LAURA: No, but I mean, what if it makes us sad to be around it?

TALIESIN: It does make us sad to be around it.

LAURA: Nineteen. Nineteen.

MATT: Those are some nice boots you're wearing, you're probably gonna have to get a new pair when all this is over. It stinks, it's sticky, the muck itself is probably not a very nice conversationalist. It doesn't also from what you can tell appear to be sentient or give you any kind of bad vibe that you can pick up.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: It's just muck.

MATT: From looking at it. It is muck.

TRAVIS: I mean, I'll go in and–

MARISHA: I can go.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LAURA: Stanky-stank.

MATT: Stanky-stank.

MARISHA: Sounds fun.

TRAVIS: What are you gonna turn into?

MARISHA: Something that burrows. I guess I technically could've taken a short rest, correct?

MATT: Not yet, no.

TALIESIN: We haven't yet.

SAM: So we're doing this now?

MARISHA: In the time we're just chilling? Okay, well, I'll take a short rest.

TALIESIN: Let's take a long rest, I mean.

SAM: Well, no, I–

MARISHA: I just want to take a short rest, just–

MATT: A short rest is about half an hour or so. Half an hour to an hour.

MARISHA: Yeah, just enough time, and then I'm gonna turn into an earth elemental and I'm gonna swan dive–

SAM: Wait, wait!

LAURA: Swan dive?

MATT: We'll get to that. Because as you take your short rest and begin sitting amongst the ground or the bough of the trees–

MARISHA: I thought we were in the mansion.

MATT: No, the mansion hasn't been cast yet.

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: So as you're resting, here amongst the tree tops–

LAURA: We're in the tree tops.

MATT: Yeah. The branches begin to sag ever so slowly.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: And particularly Keyleth and Percy, actually Grog as well, you begin to feel the branches slowly almost trying to push you off them, like you sort of slide forward.

MARISHA: Did I say something? I don't know.

TALIESIN: No, you didn't say anything.

LAURA: Trees, you're so lovely, even though you're covered in this black stuff, I can tell that you have really good personalities.

MARISHA: You've clearly been moisturizing.

TRAVIS: You really don't think that's–

MATT: All the branches begin to slowly sag down.

LAURA: Shit! I push off, we're flying, we're hovering.

MATT: And you guys all begin to slide down–

TALIESIN: I'm going to make a jump to another tree.

MARISHA: Yeah, I do the same.

MATT: Okay, make an athletics check, both of you.

SAM: I will too.

LAURA: What about you, Grog?

MARISHA: Oh my god. This is horrifying.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: All right, I'll try.

MARISHA: Ten.

TALIESIN: My potion has worn off, hasn't it?

MATT: At this point in time? How long does it last?

TALIESIN: One hour.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I frenzy raged last time.

MATT: Yeah, so you have disadvantage.

SAM: You're dead, sir.

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Don't worry about it.

LAURA: Oh my god, you rolled 19 twice in a row.

TRAVIS: Yeah, 19 and 16.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: Okay, so you leap onto another tree branch.

SAM: I got a 23.

MATT: You also leap after and actually land next to Grog.

SAM: Hey, buddy!

TRAVIS: Hey, pal!

MATT: What did you get, Percy?

TALIESIN: Seven.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: 10.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: You both reach, leap for the branch, but you're a good foot and a half, two feet short, and as your fingers catch the edge–

MARISHA: Percy, catch me!

MATT: It's slick, and both of you go plummeting about 15 feet to the ground. You both suffer four points of falling damage as you catch yourself on the ground, kind of jamming your ankles a little bit. There's a (splash) of liquid as you impact and the lower patch goes partway up your calf, almost to your knee, as you hit and you have to wiggle to try and–

TALIESIN: I want the mansion, now.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: Can we drop the endless rope down, say, hey, grab on.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: And try to yank 'em back up into the tree.

MATT: Okay. You guys take the rope and begin to pull yourself up. You feel your branch begin to slowly–

LAURA: Oh, I was on the broom.

MATT: You're still on the broom this whole time?

LAURA: I've been on the broom, yeah, I don't wanna stand on anything.

MATT: All right. Then you manage to get the rope down, you guys grab onto the rope and you pull them ever so slowly out of the muck. It's a lot of weight. I need you to make a strength check.

LAURA: Can I tie the rope off on a branch?

TALIESIN: It won't hold.

LIAM: Can I help?

MATT: Sure. Sure, we can do that. You don't need a strength check to tie the rope off, we'll just take it. You guys manage to pull yourselves at least out of the muck, however, you've gotta climb up the rope to try and get back in the branches?

TALIESIN: I'm just gonna hold on.

LAURA: We just need to get in the fucking mansion.

TALIESIN: We just need to get in the mansion.

MARISHA: Yeah, can we have the mansion?

SAM: Okay, I'll do the mansion.

MARISHA: I mean, we can still come in and out of the mansion.

SAM: Yeah, that's true, that's true.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I will cast the mansion. I will sing the song to conjure it. (Sings) Home, home on the range, where the trees are acting real strange, where chickens are pecked, Vex shoots me in the neck, and the hot tub is filled with grenades.

(All laugh and applaud.)

MATT: Well done.

TRAVIS: I'm sick, don't make me laugh that hard.

MATT: All right. With that, Scanlan, after leaping onto the next branch, you create the doorway into the mansion up in the trees. You guys all slowly eventually climb back up and get to where the entrance is, and each member of Vox Machina currently present leap into the mansion, to safety, where it's seemingly much more clean, though you are dragging clumps of this liquid on the main carpet.

TRAVIS: That's good.

TALIESIN: It's fine.

SAM: I command my servants to wipe our feet.

TRAVIS: Whoa whoa whoa, I'm sure you want to test the gunk, right, Percy?

LAURA: Yeah, we should–

SAM: Oh, go out and test it?

TRAVIS: Is it flammable, is it poisonous, is it acidic?

MARISHA: I take my fire hands and I see if I can light the gunk on fire.

MATT: Okay. As you bring it near, the gunk does not burn. You see one little pssh as a bubble bursts and there is a little burst of sulfurous flame, but it burns away in an instant, the actual liquid itself does not catch.

MARISHA: Okay. I start taking my short rest.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Should one of us lick it?

TALIESIN: Sure.

SAM: Grog?

TRAVIS: I take a pinky-smear–

LIAM: Give it to Mikey, he'll try anything.

TRAVIS: Like a droplet, right, I stick my tongue out, and I touch it to my tongue.

MATT: It resembles, and it's only familiar to you because you've tried this before, it's like tasting the filthiest copper coin you've ever held in a pocket before. It has that kind of metallic residue to it, but also this kind of earthy griminess where it's probably been devoured and digested by a number of creatures before it found its way–

LAURA: Ew!

TRAVIS: I detect a note of digestive tract.

MATT: It is not pleasant by any means.

LAURA: Do you feel evil? More than usual?

TRAVIS: I raise my hand– no.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Give me a little bit and I'll do something to it. I don't really know what I can tell you, but I'll take a look.

LAURA: Hold out your hand, then.

TALIESIN: Thank you. I need that tree as well, let's take that down to– want to help me with this before your nap or after?

MARISHA: I dunno. After.

TALIESIN: All right, I'll start on it, then you can help when you finish.

MATT: All right, so you guys begin…

TALIESIN: I'm gonna go work for a little bit.

MATT: Okay. What are the rest of you doing?

LIAM: I'm gonna hobble past Vex and say, you know, I think that broom is not as well-suited for, um, men. I think you might have done Gern a favor. I've just taken a very long spin class. I sort of tenderly walk past.

LAURA: Well, I have a seat, sorry I didn't think about.

LIAM: Oh dear.

MATT: So Vax goes to rest his bruised arch.

(All laugh.)

MARISHA: Is that enough time?

MATT: You're making those–

TALIESIN: I'm gonna make swamp shoes.

MATT: Okay, that's gonna take you–

TALIESIN: They're very simple, but yes, I have to make a lot of them.

MATT: You have to make a pair for most everybody here.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to be enlisting her help, it's literally just thin slices, I'm not making them super nice, I'm just–

MARISHA: I druidcraft the shit out of those.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm gonna have her–

LAURA: I'm gonna come out of the door with you.

TALIESIN: That's pretty much what I'm doing other than sleeping.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make four tinkering checks.

SAM: I'm gonna inspire him once with an inspirational quote. You have to look through the rain to see the rainbow.

(All laugh.)

TRAVIS: I gotta leave, I can't–

TALIESIN: I have to take a negative 10 for that, like that really removes 10?

MARISHA: Did you get that from a fortune cookie, where'd you get that?

TRAVIS: I can't be here when this happens.

SAM: Hey, pal. Life is what happens when you're making other plans. If plan A doesn't work, there's still 25 letters left in the alphabet.

LAURA: Oh, wow.

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

LAURA: That's three inspirations you've just given him.

TALIESIN: Let's burn that page.

MATT: That's borderline Lisa Frank quotes here, this is…

LIAM: Kill him!

TALIESIN: Can I remove that extra two from your charisma? I'm gonna wipe it out.

MATT: Yeah, all that reading finally goes to shit.

SAM: It was my footprints you saw.

TALIESIN: It's proficiency bonus, plus dex.

MATT: Yes, go for it.

SAM: I was carrying you all along.

TALIESIN: I hate you. I hate everything that you stand for. Oh, this is nice. This is, um.

MATT: Remember, you don't have to use the inspiration dice if you don't want to.

TALIESIN: It's two 26s.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping the inspiration dice. And, let's see, and two 19s.

MATT: All righty. Yeah, you guys take the better part of the next hour to make some loosely functional swamp shoes. They'll get you a short distance, they're not gonna last you a long time.

TALIESIN: They're not pretty. They're made of rope.

MATT: Yeah. All right. So you finish your short rest.

MARISHA: I really wanna swan dive into the muck.

LAURA: I feel like, Keyleth, a swan dive is maybe not the best idea because I feel like it'll make a lot of noise. Maybe nice and quiet.

MARISHA: If I tighten my abs and keep my feet together, it shouldn't make much noise at all.

TALIESIN: You've been watching a lot of Olympics.

MARISHA: I have been watching a lot of Olympics.

LIAM: I come back in with a big bag of ice.

MATT: And two spirits trying to hold it for you.

TRAVIS: Did we take a long rest or just a short rest?

LAURA: Short rest right now so Keyleth can go into the muck.

TALIESIN: I'm going for a full long rest after my crap.

LAURA: I'm gonna go outside with her and just hover on the broom to keep an eye.

SAM: I'm going out as well and I'm just sort of shuffling in place and moving.

LAURA: Do you wanna hang out on the broom with me?

SAM: Oh yes, that would be better.

MATT: All right, so the two of you on the broom. Grog, what are you doing?

TRAVIS: I'm going into the kitchen with the Titanstone Knuckles, and I'm gonna start hitting things.

LAURA: Wow, Grog's getting aggressive.

TRAVIS: Well, I wanna see if I can upgrade the knuckles, so I'm gonna start using them.

LAURA: Oh, smart. Smart.

SAM: I have a training basement, but okay, sure.

TALIESIN: And there's food.

MATT: You guys make your way to the front door, in the distance you can hear a series of dull thuds, bangs, cracks, and various sounds as Grog begins to just punch his way through the entirety of your mansion's kitchen.

LAURA: Do you wanna check on that?

SAM: Seems like it's normal.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: You doubt you'd ever see a fully dominated spiritual servant look nervous, yet at this moment you have about 17 of them all just going (high-pitched whine). You just tear through the vicinity.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: You're trying desperately to finish up your short rest, as you get up, you hear this noise as well as you guys make your way to the front door. You're left to try and finish up this project, probably for the next 20 minutes or so, while they go ahead and attempt this process. Vax, you're resting up your loins with ice.

LIAM: No, I mean, I'm gonna take my bag of ice and I'm gonna sit on the doorjamb and watch them go. And just see if they need help, but I'll stay here if I can.

MATT: All right. You.

LAURA: Scanlan, do you wanna actually sit on my lap so you don't have to suffer through the indignity that Vax just did?

SAM: Yes, that would be lovely, thank you.

MATT: All right, so as you guys step out, Keyleth.

SAM: Will you tell me a story?

LAURA: Whatever you want, darling.

MATT: Keyleth, as you step off of the tree branch, are you gonna climb down or just leap down into the muck?

MARISHA: I swan-dive. I take a minute to compose myself. And then–

LAURA: You're earth elemental?

MARISHA: –as gracefully as possible, pull like a Pocahontas, and then turn into the earth elemental as I dive in.

TALIESIN: Sail!

MARISHA: Sail!

MATT: All right, as you do, your form suddenly ripples and extends out into the form of your elemental body. You slam into the surface and sink down below. You guys see a slight (burble sound) in the liquid, and it leaves this sort of crater of splash that slowly closes up over with no sign of Keyleth now visible on the surface.

LAURA: I'm gonna hand Vax the endless rope and say, you might just wanna drop that down to the muck so she can get out if she needs it. Maybe. Like fish for her.

LIAM: Yeah, I go and I tie one end of it to the heaviest piece of furniture I can find in the foyer.

MATT: All right. No heavy furniture per se, but there are a series of large marble pillars that are load-bearing within the interior, and that's probably your best bet, so you go ahead and wrap the rope around that.

LIAM: Yes, I use the swirly-whirly knot.

MATT: Great. The one that Pike taught you from her sailing days.

MARISHA: I start to earthglide, breaststroking through the mud under the swamp to the tree.

LAURA: To the tree, you're going to the tree?

MARISHA: I'm heading towards it.

SAM: Wait, hold up.

MATT: Swimming through the tar itself is a slowing process even as an earth elemental. Earthgliding would mean going subterranean to where the actual physical earth and soil is what you can traverse through. The tar is not natural in comparison to your elemental form, so you'd have to go beneath the actual bog.

MARISHA: How much further down is it?

MATT: I'd say it's probably anywhere from three to five feet, depending on certain things, that's to get past how much of it has seeped into the ground.

MARISHA: Okay, then I go down.

MATT: Okay. You go down, and you have to get lower the closer you get to it, as the actual seep, the actual depth in which this substance seems to have penetrated the dirt gets lower and lower. You begin to move through as you glide in the darkness.

SAM: You know what, we should've definitely tied that rope to her before–

LAURA: Yeah, before she went in, yeah yeah yeah.

MARISHA: I wanna use my tremor-sense too to just be aware.

MATT: Yeah, every now and then you feel a twitch, a large twitch in the ground, and you kind of shoulder-charger into what seems to be a large root that is dug into the ground. And you start finding little pockets here and there beneath these roots of that awful tar-like substance that have just been pushed into the ground like these little tar geodes, if you will. You start feeling around and finding these large roots that are just a heavy network of chaos beneath the tree. You're now under the tree, probably a good 25, 30 feet below it.

MARISHA: Okay. If I reach and out touch one of the roots, like just run my hand along it, what happens?

SAM: God, what is she doing?

TALIESIN: You're my hero.

MATT: You run your hand along the root. It's stiff, the surface of the bark itself is a little rough at the touch. Yeah.

TALIESIN: Sorry. I just love that word.

SAM: Dick joke.

MARISHA: I move back a little bit, kind of getting away from the tree.

MATT: Okay, glide backward, away from that large root that you had run into.

MARISHA: Do I sense any type of creatures living under here?

MATT: Not within your vicinity, no.

MARISHA: Any movement, nothing crazy?

MATT: Just the occasional shift, like a very faint movement that's rather sudden in certain areas nearby.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm gonna start making my way back to the mansion.

TALIESIN: It was good, it was good.

MATT: You earthglide back up, you guys, after waiting a few minutes, suddenly emerging from the bottom of the bog, you see Keyleth's now covered in black tar-like material, her elemental form emerges.

MARISHA: Ooh, like the swamp thing? Do I look like the swamp thing?

MATT: Kinda.

MARISHA: That's cool.

LAURA: Are you okay?

MARISHA: (rock noises)

LAURA: Oh, right. Cool.

MATT: She talks. It sounds like a slow-moving rockslide. (rock sounds)

LAURA: Awesome.

TALIESIN: Do you speak rock?

MARISHA: That's very poetic. And then I kind of make my way up and drop earth elemental form.

MATT: Okay, as you drop the form, much of the muck just kind of drops off of where the form once was. A little bit's still clinging to the bottom of your robes, but mostly clean.

MARISHA: Yeah, I think it's good, I didn't really see much or learn much more than we already knew.

LAURA: Did you see any creatures around?

MARISHA: No creatures.

SAM: Did the muck try to eat you?

MARISHA: The muck did not try to eat me. It's not as deep as I would've thought, actually. It's only three feet or so deep. I do believe that the tree is living, though. I think its roots were kind of twitching and moving around.

SAM: But you felt the roots, it's not an illusion, it's a real tree.

MARISHA: It is a real tree.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: The roots were very turgid.

SAM: Hmm. What a good word.

MARISHA: Someone taught that to me earlier.

TALIESIN: I feel like a terrible person, I think. It's just a great word, that's all.

MATT: All right. So with her return, what are you guys gonna do?

TRAVIS: (punching sounds)

LAURA: Do you wanna go, maybe?

SAM: Yeah, I guess we should go in and see what going on, what's cooking in the kitchen.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: As you guys rush into the kitchen, and looking around, you can see now every cabinet's pulled off of its hinges and shattered in half, what was a central stone island is now just a pile of smashed granite.

SAM: Damn it.

MATT: Every single possible breakable utensil, platter–

TRAVIS: Don't forget the holes in the wall.

MATT: Oh, it is just ruin. You see every servant is now on the ground trying to scoop things up, and as soon as they get a handful to go ahead and set it somewhere, just slapped out of their hand by a fist.

SAM: Grog, what are you doing? This is our kitchen and we need to eat dinner here!

TRAVIS: I'm trying to activate these, and they require pain. (yells)

MATT: With that, what was once a large black cauldron that was used in soup and other sort of base-like liquids, is now, pwang, a large heavy ding is now on the inside in the shape of a fist, and it's half as useful.

LAURA: Grog!

TRAVIS: Do I notice any difference in the gauntlets?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: At disadvantage?

LAURA: Because you're super tired.

MATT: Yes, because you haven't rested yet.

TRAVIS: One less. Ten.

MATT: No difference whatsoever.

TRAVIS: Maybe I need to hit people.

LIAM: I start backing away slow.

(All laugh.)

TALIESIN: I walk in at this point and I'm just looking for some chicken.

MARISHA: I also walk in. Scanlan!

LAURA: Oh, you're not an earth elemental anymore.

MARISHA: Are you remodeling?

LAURA: That's too bad.

SAM: I didn't intend to, but Grog has forgotten that I have a whole training ground downstairs that he could've used. Grog, if you need to hit something, someone, I can give you a few of the servants.

TRAVIS: Would you?

SAM: Sure, I've got like a hundred of them.

TRAVIS: How many?

SAM: You guys don't mind, do you?

LAURA: Wait, do they feel pain?

MATT: They all turn to you and kinda go.

TRAVIS: How many can I have?

SAM: Have a dozen. Baker's dozen.

TRAVIS: I go into the next room.

TALIESIN: A dozen bakers.

TRAVIS: With the dozen servants.

LAURA: Go downstairs, Grog!

TRAVIS: What if a change happens, don't you wanna be there?

LAURA: All right, yeah.

LIAM: Scanlan, does your house unbreak itself if Grog breaks it, you know, if it goes away, it poofs and it comes back, is all his damage there or does it–

TRAVIS: Please. Grog always leaves his mark.

SAM: The damage, I believe, I've never seen damage this bad in our place before, but. I believe it will reset. It goes back to normal at the end.

MATT: We'll find out.

LAURA: We haven't looked at the spa since we destroyed it.

SAM: I haven't been down to the spa in a while.

TRAVIS: I pick up one of the servants by the head and I try and crush his head.

LAURA: Oh, no!

MATT: Your fingers pass through its spectral form. There's no actual–

TRAVIS: Make yourself grabbable.

SAM: You have to try harder, Grog.

MATT: Passes through again.

TRAVIS: Fix this. You fix this now. I will break more stuff.

SAM: I thought that would work, honestly.

TALIESIN: Is Keyleth still covered in goop?

TRAVIS: I punched the cow before.

LAURA: You did punch a cow.

MARISHA: I kinda fwooshed it off.

TALIESIN: Do you have any left on you?

LIAM: Grog, he doesn't want you to know this, he told me this the last time you were here, you actually have to do that 33 times before it takes hold, so just keep going.

TRAVIS: I grab again. I grab again. I grab again. I grab again.

MATT: As you keep going, you're not even sure quite what a 33 is, but you just keep going. The servant stands there, its kind of loosely formless face, other than you can see eyes, a nose, and a mouth, but the features are very plain and translucent, just stay wide and staring straight at you.

TRAVIS: Fine, fine. Bring me a cow.

LAURA: Ohh.

SAM: We usually have one cow.

MATT: The servants vanish and come back, you hear a familiar (dinging).

LAURA: No, I hated it when you punched the cow!

TRAVIS: No, no, no.

TALIESIN: I'm going back to my room.

TRAVIS: It's time to ring this bell.

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: I beat the shit out of the cow.

(All groan.)

LAURA: That is awful. I leave, I can't watch, I go and look for chicken.

SAM: Before you beat this poor senseless cow–

TRAVIS: It's a purple, like, ethereal cow.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: It's still a cow, it's still a cow, don't.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna rocky ribs the shit out of this cow.

LIAM: Street Fighter it?

MATT: Bonus round. You take the next half an hour, beating the non-living crap out of this spectral cow, which, every impact has a sound hit. Does not seem to react in pain as much as (distressed mooing). There's no physical damage seen upon its form, it just gets knocked around.

LAURA: That's good.

SAM: I've got an idea. I can fix this, Grog, I want you to be a satisfied customer. Let's go downstairs.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: Okay. I take him downstairs.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I say, you're gonna punch me and keep punching me as long as you can. All right?

TRAVIS: Are you sure?

SAM: And I transform into a triceratops.

LAURA: Awesome.

MARISHA: I go downstairs to watch.

TRAVIS: Is this my day-birth or something?

SAM: Birthday. I mean, (growls)

MATT: Yes, as you hear the growling creature you've never seen before in your life, horns protruding from the front of its bony, armored headpiece, its scaled armored body standing before you, massive, snorting, you just start punching the crap out of it.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Rage-punching.

(All singing Jurassic Park theme.)

SAM: I'm gonna fight back a little.

MATT: A little bit? All right. You guys do begin to scrap back and forth for the next ten minutes. 'Cause it takes ten minutes of solid punching and missing for Grog to eventually whittle your triceratops hitpoints down to zero. However, in the process, you do manage to get a bit gored, suffering a total of nine points of piercing damage throughout the entirety of this, just little scrapes and scratches, the occasional puncture wound, but eventually you get one solid crack with the gauntlets across his face, and the triceratops form shifts back down to a tiny little Scanlan Shorthalt.

LAURA: Don't hit him, don't hit him!

SAM: Wait, wait, did it work? Are your gauntlets better or whatever you're trying to do?

TRAVIS: Do I feel anything?

MATT: Perception check.

LAURA: You need to rest so you can perceive things better. Oh.

TALIESIN: Can you roll lower?

TRAVIS: I could. There's one number lower.

(All laugh.)

MATT: No seeming change whatsoever. Although no scarring. The good thing about the gauntlets is that they're powerful enough where all those impacts don't appear to have scratched or dented the surface.

TRAVIS: No.

SAM: Am I okay?

MATT: You're a little sore. That last hit did carry over a little bit, the form didn't absorb the entirety of the blow. You did come back with, uh. Four points of bludgeoning damage to your chin, so you're, you know, a little bit of blood on the corner of your lip that you can taste, and your jaw is a little sore on the right side.

TALIESIN: Just for fun while everything's going on, I'm running two passive experiments in my lab while I'm working on the shoes.

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Oh, and I help him finish the shoes by helping druidcraft them.

TALIESIN: I'm leaving some of the muck on some chicken that I took from the kitchen to see if it has any effect on flesh after a long exposure.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And then I'm distilling some to see if I can even identify anything in there or anything weird.

MATT: All right. So what are you guys doing now?

TRAVIS: Being disappointed.

TALIESIN: Do you have to roll for that?

MATT: Disadvantage.

LAURA: Natural 20.

(All laugh.)

LAURA: I was saying it, but it really happened!

TALIESIN: Metaphor! Metaphor!

SAM: You know what, Grog, you could, it might make you feel better if you repaid the favor. I've been meaning to try to upgrade Mythcarver.

TRAVIS: Yeah, come get it. Come get it.

SAM: All right, I'm gonna do a stab. I'm gonna sing a note and see if this does anything to Mythcarver. I'll just go (sings a note) and I'll try and jam it through his arm.

MATT: Okay, you hit up a scale of notes, and one note resonates with the blade, and the harmonic resonance kind of causes it to shake ever so slightly as it kind of amplifies the sound. Go ahead and roll an attack.

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: 18 plus nine.

MATT: That definitely hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

SAM: Uh, not much. 1d8. Three, six, plus one… ooh, nine!

MATT: Nine points of damage to you, Grog, as the blade kinda sinks about four inches through one of your pectoral muscles.

TRAVIS: (grunts)

SAM: And I will sing as I withdraw it as well.

(sings a note)

MATT: You pull it out and the blade almost vibrates as it does, it scatters the blood off of its surface as you withdraw it from the wound.

SAM: Do I notice any change in the weapon?

MATT: It is bloodless.

SAM: Damn it.

MATT: No noticeable change.

TRAVIS: Nothing?

MATT: Nothing.

TRAVIS: You're only gonna do it once?

SAM: But it hurts you!

TRAVIS: Nah. Do one more, but like, angry-sing.

SAM: All right. All right, one more time. I'll do some like Black Sabbathy sort of (heavy metal screaming).

MATT: (laughs) Go for it.

SAM: All right.

MATT: Take advantage on this one because of your intense singing.

SAM: 18 plus nine.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: Ooh, yeah, that's better.

SAM and TALIESIN: Ooh!

SAM: 15.

MATT: Shnk! Other pectoral muscle now.

TRAVIS: (yelps)

MATT: A matching wound, this one kind of, (yelps), tickles you a little as it goes a little deeper and kinda tickles the outside of a lung.

SAM: All right. I withdraw. And any change?

MATT: As you withdraw, it kind of rings with the pullback, blood scattered, blade is clean, no noticeable change.

SAM: Ah, damn it. All right, forget it.

TRAVIS: These things don't work.

SAM: I know, these suck.

TRAVIS: What are we doing wrong?

SAM: I don't know. Wish there was a manual.

TRAVIS: Have we looked for instructions? Is there writing on the Titanstone Knuckles?

MATT: There are various carvings on it.

TRAVIS: Carvings.

SAM: Anything on mine?

MATT: There are runes around the base of it. What languages do you know?

SAM: Nothing. I know Common and Gnome.

MATT: Yeah, you don't recognize it.

LAURA: I'm gonna go up to Grog and cast Cure Wounds at third level.

MATT: Okay, go for it, you can roll that up.

LAURA: Ten whole points of healing.

TRAVIS: Thanks, man.

MARISHA: I also go ahead and cure myself up.

MATT: Okay. All right.

SAM: We're about to take a rest.

MARISHA: Eh.

MATT: What else do you guys want to do?

TRAVIS: I'm gonna long rest now.

TALIESIN: Long rest, eat some chicken.

MARISHA: Wait, do we have any vague plan, wait, we plan at dawn?

LAURA: We'll plan tomorrow morning.

MARISHA: We'll plan at dawn.

TRAVIS: We'll plan at dawn.

LAURA: I wanna go upstairs and just open the door and keep an eye out of it for just a little bit and see what I see out the doorway.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

LAURA: Oh, come on! Oh, um. That would be a 15.

MATT: 15. All right. How much time do you spend out there?

LAURA: Well, at the door?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: How much time can I spend and still get a good rest?

MATT: Well, I mean, you need an eight-hour rest for a full night's rest, so it depends how much time you want to push off until you begin taking your rest.

LAURA: Oh, right. Well, how about a couple hours?

MATT: Okay. First hour, seemingly no real change. Second hour, go ahead and make another perception check.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. You do notice a little ways off, some of the tree brush shifts a little bit, and then you see what looks to be a few trees kind of (fwoosh).

LAURA: Disappear?

MATT: Seemingly there's now a hole in the canopy where once was straight canopy.

TRAVIS: What do you think that is?

LAURA: I dunno.

TRAVIS: Like a giant werewolf maybe?

LAURA: A giant werewolf eating an entire tree?

TRAVIS: Tree's not missing.

LAURA: The tree, like, disappeared?

MATT: There is now a hole in the canopy where there was not previously, seemingly the treetops that filled that space have kind of moved out of the way.

MARISHA: They go straight down?

LAURA: Oh, I bet something was sitting in the tree maybe and was keeping still. That could be it. Can I look down underneath us and see if the trees are kind of staying put where we are?

MATT: Yeah, and glancing about, nothing is really moving in your vicinity, and the area, the part of the canopy that is now missing, is a pretty large area.

LAURA: It seems bigger than a creature would be.

MATT: It would probably have been the sudden removal or shift of multiple trees to leave that opening in the canopy.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: Holy moly.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: Maybe something has trees on its back and moves.

LAURA: Wow, maybe the hag can just move her hut magically whenever she wants. Do you think that's possible?

MARISHA: I don't know, maybe.

LAURA: But the big scary tree, that's staying still.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Was it coming from that direction?

MATT: Yeah, it's still in its place.

LAURA: What direction was it coming from?

MATT: Actually, it would be kind of southwest from where you are now.

MARISHA: So the direction we came from.

MATT: No, you came southeast, not the direction where you came from, it's still maybe a quarter-mile to a half-mile from where you currently are, so it's not on your path per se.

TRAVIS: Can I roll some hit dice to heal up?

LAURA: All right. Shit.

MATT: Well, for a full night's rest you're fully healed.

LAURA: I guess I shut the door. That's creepy.

MATT: All right. You close the door.

LAURA: I don't know who I would talk to about that. Can I go find Keyleth, are you asleep yet?

MARISHA: No. I don't think so. I've been helping Percy with his shoes.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we're in my room. Making shoes.

MATT: Okay. Shoes are finished now.

LAURA: Oh. Okay. So you guys are together?

MARISHA: Just finished making shoes.

LAURA: Oh, look at those beautiful shoes. They're lovely.

MARISHA: Yeah, they might work.

TALIESIN: They're not, but thank you.

MATT: They're pretty rough. They're pretty rough.

LAURA: No, no, those look great.

MARISHA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Rustic. Very rustic.

MARISHA: Thank you. I'm proud of them, Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm proud too.

TRAVIS: Your shoes suck.

TALIESIN: You're not here.

MATT: He did pop in briefly to just tell you that.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Those shoes suck.

MATT: And closes the door.

SAM: He did that to everybody's room, just in case.

MATT: To cover all his bases.

SAM: Hey!

MATT: Perfect.

LAURA: Can I sit down?

MARISHA: You were supposed to be a bootmaker. You're super-judgey.

LAURA: Oh, this is true.

TALIESIN: You were a bootmaker, that's very true.

MATT: You did start making your own boots, yeah.

LAURA: That was your very first–

TRAVIS: You didn't ask me to make the boots.

LAURA: Can I sit down and start playing with the shoes? And, um, ask, Keyleth? Do you know of anything that would cause entire trees to vanish?

MARISHA: How do you mean, vanish?

LAURA: Well, I was staring at the door, and all of a sudden, around a space, about three trees just disappeared.

MARISHA: Like something really large passed in front of it?

LAURA: No, like they dropped, and there's a hole in the canopy.

TALIESIN: Huh.

MARISHA: That's different.

TALIESIN: That's interesting.

LAURA: Do you know of anything that would cause that?

TRAVIS: In the Feywild?

MARISHA: Do I know of anything that would cause that? Can I roll a nature check or something?

MATT: Roll a nature check.

MARISHA: Don't fucking fail me.

LAURA: Would we have learned anything about that in our studies?

MARISHA: (yells wordlessly)

SAM: Wow, those dice.

LAURA: Maybe just don't use them anymore.

TRAVIS: Don't know who you pissed off…

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: 14.

LAURA: They're so nice and– maybe just put them on display! Maybe put them in a really pretty glass case.

MATT: No. Make 'em work for you. Make 'em work for you. You paid for that shit.

LAURA: Turn 'em into jewelry?

MATT: I mean, there are a number of things that could've done it, whether it be lumbering, people chopping down trees takes them down. Creatures that are large can push over trees. Trees that are dying and rotting and eventually fall over on their own.

LAURA: Did it look like they dropped down, though? Or did it look like they dropped over?

MATT: It's hard to know from this perspective. You just saw them kind of fall out of the canopy, so you're not sure if it was at an angle or straight down or what.

MARISHA: That could be so many things.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: It's hard to say.

TALIESIN: At this point, can I tell anything about the muck from just boiling it to separate components? Trying to just see what's in there. I'm assuming it's probably just death-paste, it's just rot.

MATT: It looks to be just congealed decayed matter. It does not have any properties that you can tell on a chemical level at least that stand out.

TALIESIN: But it is decayed matter.

MATT: It is various types of decayed matter, organic matter.

TALIESIN: The tree is producing it.

LAURA: So it is like oil.

TALIESIN: Well, here's my question.

MARISHA: It's producing a lot of it, too. Way more than it should.

TALIESIN: What do trees need to live?

TRAVIS: Grass.

SAM: Sunlight and water.

LAURA: Sunlight and water.

MARISHA: And a little bit of minerals and dirt.

TALIESIN: Where is the sunlight?

LAURA: Not here.

TALIESIN: And the tree's alive.

MARISHA: Well, we're also in the Feywild.

LAURA: Might not need the same thing.

MARISHA: Might not need the same thing.

TALIESIN: Well, it's got to eat something. This is what it's producing, and it's got to eat something.

LAURA: Maybe it eats living creatures?

TALIESIN: Maybe it eats trees.

LIAM: So Percival, would you imagine that the science of the Feywild, I don't know what that phrase means, would it be the same as our own world? Maybe it follows different rules.

TALIESIN: It probably does, but at the same time, you don't get something from nothing. And… life needs things to live.

SAM: That's so poetic.

TALIESIN: You don't get life from nothing. A little iffy.

LAURA: And we did see those branches moving like actual limbs on a being as opposed to branches on a tree.

MARISHA: Well, I mean, nothing here has really been natural.

LAURA: It could be like a venus flytrap.

TALIESIN: It's just a hypothesis, but what if the tree's carnivorous. Or omnivorous.

LAURA: I think that's a very viable option.

MARISHA: So you think maybe it's the tree that ate that other group of trees?

LAURA: Possibly.

TALIESIN: It's very big.

MARISHA: It's a cannibal tree?

TALIESIN: It might be a cannibal tree.

MARISHA: It's eating its own kind?

TRAVIS: I mean, the sphinx did say that the bow is the heart of a cancerous tree, I think if we're expecting to not find the tree, we're stupid.

MARISHA: Does Fenthras mean anything? Fenthras doesn't mean anything, right?

TRAVIS: I am the wrong one to ask.

LAURA: Fenthras, is that elven?

MATT: Fenthras is elven.

MARISHA: Is that a name?

MATT: There is no direct translation to it, per se, but its name has hints or at least bases of the ancient elven words for protector and growth.

TALIESIN: Interesting.

MARISHA: Protector and growth.

TRAVIS: Why don't we poison the tree?

LAURA: I think it's already poisoned.

TALIESIN: How do you poison a poisoned tree?

LAURA: Give it sunlight.

TALIESIN: Sunlight is definitely something you should put in your arsenal. Whatever it's not used to being exposed to.

LAURA: Sunlight and water. Fresh water.

TALIESIN: I don't think rot is going to be how we kill this thing. I think it's not going to be like the crocodile.

TRAVIS: Abba music.

LAURA: (laughs) Abba music.

MARISHA: No, it seems–

TALIESIN: It needs purification.

SAM: Don't worry, Pike can… oh.

TRAVIS: I also have poison.

SAM: Oh, okay.

TALIESIN: I think it might just laugh poison off.

TRAVIS: Oh.

TALIESIN: I don't know.

TRAVIS: What about honey?

TALIESIN: Nothing laughs honey off.

LAURA: You have honey? Can you make honey in your–

TALIESIN: Can you make honey in that jar?

LIAM: Pull out the magic jug, yeah.

LAURA: You can make fresh water in that jug, though, can't you?

TRAVIS: I got honey for you.

TALIESIN: You've got very little brain, don't you?

MARISHA: Make some maple syrup?

SAM: How about holy water?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Maybe? I don't know.

TRAVIS: I mean, I can make some water if you wanna bless it.

SAM: No.

TALIESIN: That's not what we're hoping for.

MARISHA: I mean, when I was in my earth elemental form, I got up underneath the tree, I mean, I feel like if we needed to, I can get inside of it.

TRAVIS: (laughs) By yourself?

LAURA: I think that could be a very scary prospect.

TRAVIS: Let me tell you a tale of two people that went inside a dragon.

LIAM: Worked out.

MARISHA: Yeah, they're still sitting here today. It's fine.

TALIESIN: I was about to say, I don't think it's much of a cautionary tale, really.

MARISHA: No. If anything, it's a terrible, terrible influence.

TALIESIN: Yes. I think that's definitely, I think light, I think electricity.

MARISHA: Well, it's not short on water, that's for sure.

TALIESIN: There is water in the, was there groundwater of some kind?

MARISHA: I mean, it was sludgy enough. Was there groundwater?

MATT: I mean, there were pockets or some bit of groundwater in there, but a lot of the dense pockets you found were just deeply seated pockets of that sludge-like material that seems to be produced or put out by the nearby roots.

MARISHA: Right.

LAURA: When you talked to the trees around you, did it seem like they were actually alive, or was it all dead forest that we've been traveling through?

MARISHA: When I communed with nature?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Everything was alive everywhere. That's what, the rules here haven't really–

SAM: Have you been talking to any of the trees around here? Right around here?

MARISHA: Yeah, I can. I can.

LAURA: Maybe before we sleep. Can you talk to the nature?

MARISHA: I can.

TALIESIN: I'll watch this.

MARISHA: Do we have any questions that I might want to figure out before I–

SAM: Is the big tree eating you all?

LAURA: Are you friends with the big tree? How can we help?

TALIESIN: Can we cure you?

MARISHA: Cure the tree, is the tree eating other things, can we cure the tree…

SAM: Is that a tree?

MARISHA: Is that even a tree?

LAURA: Oh, what if it's a big scary creature, not actually a tree?

TRAVIS: Can we hurt the tree?

LIAM: Does the tree have a weakness?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: I'll maybe try and figure out… okay, all right. I'm gonna go step outside.

LAURA: Do you want to hang out on the broom so you don't actually step–

TRAVIS: You're just giving the broom away now.

LAURA: Well, I just don't want anybody to actually stand on a tree for very long.

TRAVIS: Just saying.

MARISHA: I have to be connected with the ground, I think.

TALIESIN: Tie a rope around her this time.

LAURA: Right.

MARISHA: Okay, yeah, tie a rope around me. And I jump back in the mud.

MATT: You land (splash), close to knee-deep in the actual muck below you.

MARISHA: I'm gonna kind of lay back into it.

LAURA: Oh, jeez!

SAM: Ooh, like American Beauty?

MARISHA: Sensory deprivation tank-style.

LAURA: I just send things down onto her.

SAM: Chicken?

MATT: As you lay there, you slowly sink into it, until you guys just see the outside of Keyleth's face emerge, some of her horned crown sticking out of the muck. A little bit of her chest and her knees and some of the hands emerging, the rest of her is submerged entirely in this muck.

TRAVIS: Sweet.

MATT: You close your eyes and begin reciting the incantation of the spell. You begin to worry as she begins to sink further in, but as she finishes the incantation she stops sinking and it brings her to the surface halfway and keeps her at this balance point there.

LAURA: We're just staring out the door down at her.

TALIESIN: Holding a rope.

MATT: Suddenly your consciousness kind of extends into all the nearby, and it's rush because there's just life all around you, life itself is dark, it's twisted, but it is living. What do you wish to ask of the nearby essence?

MARISHA: Um, okay. Can I figure out what is feeding the tree, what the tree, if the tree is consuming things around it, what is fueling the tree?

MATT: The response?

MARISHA: I sense a lot coming out from the tree, that's clear, can I sense an energy going in towards the tree?

MATT: Well, your question is, what is feeding the tree? You have to ask a question.

MARISHA: What is fueling the tree, yes.

MATT: Sondur.

SAM: Sondur?

LAURA: We aren't listening to this.

MARISHA: Sondur.

TRAVIS: I love having a character who can't read. No pressure.

MATT: Sondur is the only response you get.

MARISHA: What is the tree's weakness?

SAM: Poovah.

(All laugh.)

SAM: Shamalaka.

TALIESIN: Terry.

LAURA: (laughs) Terry.

MATT: You get no response, it seems like the question doesn't take hold in the connection, there is no answer to that question. It doesn't consume the question asked as part of the incantation.

LAURA: Remember, we asked if it was an actual tree, if it's an actual tree.

SAM: Has it been eating you?

LAURA: (whispers) Who is Sondur?

MARISHA: Who is Sondur? That's actually, I should've thought about that, that's a good one.

MATT: It has to relate to the area, terrain, bodies of water, actual information about individuals? The living essence of the forest would not probably know that.

MARISHA: Okay. Then can I ask the living fauna around me if this tree is sucking life force from them? Is the tree in the middle hurting the plants all around, like for example–

MATT: The answer is yes.

MARISHA: Is that all I got?

MATT: That's your two questions. You asked one that wasn't effectual, and thus the incantation did not consider it utilized.

SAM: Is it a tree?

MATT: One more question.

MARISHA: Is the cancerous tree more than just a tree?

SAM: Good question.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Yes.

MARISHA: Sure, that probably… sure.

TALIESIN: We got a name.

MATT: And with that, suddenly, you feel the incantation break its hold with the nearby life sources, you begin to sink once again.

LAURA: (gasps) Pull her out, pull her out.

MATT: As you guys pull up as you reach up and grab it, pulling her free from the swampy morass, and carry her back up to the entrance of the mansion.

SAM: What did he say?

MARISHA: Sondur.

SAM: Sondur.

LAURA: What do you mean, Sondur?

MARISHA: Sondur, that's…

LAURA: Is that a band, what is it?

SAM: Flight of the Sondurs?

MARISHA: (laughs) Flight of the Sondurs.

TRAVIS: Is that like an elven word?

LAURA: Is it an elven word?

MARISHA: Is it an elven word?

LAURA: That we've heard?

SAM: Do any of us recognize the word?

MATT: None of you recognize the word, but it does sound like a name with elvish background or heritage, or at least some sort of ancient elvish roots to the name structure. It doesn't have specific meaning, but there are names you've heard of people of elven lineage that are plays on a similar sound.

LAURA: Does it sound… I mean, what would those names mean?

MATT: Well, I mean, the one that's closest to you is your father's, which is Syldor.

LAURA: Right, and he's a dick, so the tree probably is too.

SAM: Sondur, Syldor, they're brothers.

MATT: Totally.

SAM: Isn't that how it works?

LAURA: That is how it works. Vex and Vax.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

MARISHA: You've done a lot of reading of the elven culture. Do you know anything about a Sondur?

MATT: You have no idea.

TALIESIN: I have no idea. I'm racking my brain and wishing I had access to a library.

LAURA: Do you have a library here?

SAM: Do I?

MATT: Well, you can have one apparate within the mansion, if you wish.

SAM: With books?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Of course I have a library! It's in my personal chambers where I do all of my studying.

TRAVIS: Keyleth.

LAURA: Oh. We have to go to your actual bedroom?

TALIESIN: It's all pornography. Just the entire library is like–

SAM: Only in the back.

TALIESIN: It's like Beauty and the Beast, it's just pornography.

MARISHA: Yes, Grog?

TRAVIS: Did you ask if the tree was just one thing?

MARISHA: It didn't appear to be one thing. Because it was harming the plant life around it. So it's not necessarily all connected, it seems. But it is also definitely not just a tree.

TRAVIS: What if we, like, salt the earth? That's an expression.

TALIESIN: It's more than an expression, it's legitimately something you do. Unfortunately, you need salt for that.

LAURA: Do we have salt? Do we have lots of salt here in the mansion, Scanlan?

SAM: It's all over the floor of the kitchen.

LAURA: Oh, but we can't bring it out, we can't bring it out.

TRAVIS: I have 12 gallons of salt water.

MARISHA: Didn't you get a bunch of salt when you jumped into the–

LAURA: I don't know if 12 gallons is enough to kill a tree.

MARISHA: –when you did the cannonball contest?

TALIESIN: That wasn't salt.

TRAVIS: I've heard them say it before, they're like, oh, you are the salt of the earth.

TALIESIN: That wasn't salt, that was something else, and I used it all for the cannonball.

SAM: So what's our plan? Do we attack this thing with brute force? How do we corrupt the ground? You can turn the ground to stone, will that help anything? Right?

TRAVIS: What's on the other side of this tree? It's huge, it's a hundred feet.

TALIESIN: Inside the tree is the bow. I think if we remove the bow, I think if we find the bow inside the tree, I think that's how–

SAM: That's a lot of tree to search, it could be way up, it could be in a branch.

LIAM: What is the legend, at the heart of this tree?

TALIESIN: The heart of this tree. I think we go in.

TRAVIS: It used to be a titan that had its heart broken or something.

LIAM: Probably inside.

LAURA: Yeah, what if the–

SAM: It says it now acts as the heart to a cancerous tree corrupting the verdant land.

TALIESIN: If I were the heart of a tree, I'd be in the center.

MARISHA: It was a bow that felled the titans.

LAURA: I feel like we probably should've done some research on Fenthras before we came out here.

SAM: We can go to my library.

LAURA: Look in your library, I am following you to your library.

TALIESIN: I'm curious to see the library, I just want to see what a giant disaster this is.

MATT: You did receive a little information about it from Allura, from her research as well.

LAURA: Yes, that's right, that's right!

MATT: Did you write that down?

SAM: Maybe?

LAURA: Yeah, but I listened to her real hard when she was talking.

SAM: Marisha writes down everything.

MARISHA: I do, it's just… where.

SAM: The bigger question is how does she find it.

MARISHA: How do I find it, exactly. When did we talk to her?

MATT: Last time you were in Whitestone, right before you left for the actual Feywild.

LAURA: Aw man, I don't think I wrote it down, I think I was just listening.

MARISHA: All right, Feywild, hang on.

SAM: I know that Simon's mom is Elwen.

MATT: There you go. See? Perfect. That was pre-stream.

SAM: I know that…

LAURA: Fenthras! No, that's all I wrote.

MATT: (laughs) You were so excited for a second. So excited.

LAURA: I was so excited 'cause I saw it written down, but no, I didn't write.

MATT: No.

LAURA: I'm sorry.

TRAVIS: You're gonna make me check my notes?

LAURA: I didn't write it down. Dammit. Balls. But I have a real good–

SAM: I know that there's a hatmaker named Deirdre somewhere in the world.

MATT: Guys. You guys.

LIAM: Would a really successful history check help Vex remember what the fuck she was told?

MATT: (laughs) Go ahead and make a history check.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.

TRAVIS: I've got vegemite written down.

TALIESIN: I think that's a shopping list.

MARISHA: God, I was clearly writing incredibly fast.

LAURA: Shit history.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

SAM: Did you roll it?

LAURA: 17 is what I rolled.

SAM: Well, that's something.

MATT: 17 is not too bad.

MARISHA: I have 'archfey, black heart'.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Okay, that jogged my memory a little bit, I sort of remember.

MATT: There you go.

MARISHA: He was an arch– yes, go ahead.

MATT: There was an archfey that existed here that was apparently the holder of Fenthras that was betrayed and his heart became corrupted and thus became the center of this corruption.

SAM: There you go.

MARISHA: So we can assume that the archfey is probably Sondur.

LAURA: Sondur.

MARISHA: And he's probably still inside the tree, and he probably is not gonna let go of his bow.

LAURA: What exactly is an archfey?

MATT: An archfey, from your knowledge and experience, they're very powerful fey creatures, some largely belonged to some of the leading courts in the Feywild, the Seelie and the Unseelie.

LIAM: Oberon.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Some unaffiliated. Like for instance, in Midsummer Night's Dream, Titania and Oberon would totally be archfey.

LAURA: Archfey. Okay.

MATT: Very, very powerful and influential fey creatures that both have understanding and powers to bend the surrounding Feywild to their will.

MARISHA: And then he must have fought in what was known as the Calamity?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: Well, the Calamity wasn't against the titans, the Calamity, those were the final battles of the gods physically on Exandria before the Divergence in which they separated from all their creations for good.

MARISHA: Where does 'black heart' come from? Why did I write that down?

MATT: His heart was corrupted? I don't know why you wrote it down.

MARISHA: I wrote down 'black heart'.

TALIESIN: Seemed like a thing.

MARISHA: Seemed important.

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: 'Cause he was corrupted. Okay.

SAM: So we're fighting an archfey inside a tree.

LAURA: So we know how to fight the tree. Okay.

SAM: We gotta get the archfey out of the tree.

TALIESIN: We gotta get the archfey out of the tree.

MARISHA: So someone's going into the tree.

LAURA: Maybe we can talk to it.

SAM: What's its name again? Sorry.

MATT: Sondur.

SAM: Sondur.

MATT: Was the name you were given.

LAURA: Maybe if we call out to him, he'll talk to us.

MARISHA: Maybe.

LIAM: Maybe if we put Shorthalt forward…

LAURA: You're so charming.

TALIESIN: You are so charming.

SAM: Yeah, sure.

TALIESIN: And you have so much good advice.

TRAVIS: Do fey creatures live a long time?

SAM: Hey, Sondur, Sondur, give us your bow.

TRAVIS: What if he was betrayed by something in the Feywild, and we found that thing, whether it was a comrade or a–

LIAM: Well, that seems likely, but we'd have to turn over every stone in la-la land to find it.

LAURA: Or we have to talk to him and find out, and maybe…

TRAVIS: Yeah, and you can talk to trees.

MARISHA: I can. I can attempt to talk to the tree.

TALIESIN: After a rest, I'm going to sleep.

LIAM: Scanlan and Keyleth combo?

MARISHA: Huh?

LIAM: Scanlan and Keyleth duo to talk to the tree?

SAM: What are we asking the tree?

LAURA: In the morning.

SAM: Yeah, but what are we–

TRAVIS: Who betrayed it.

LAURA: We're gonna talk to Sondur and see, you know, why are you acting this way?

LIAM: Yes, how can we help you, how can we fix what's going on?

LAURA: Oh no, look at his face, he looks like that is a very bad idea.

MARISHA: (laughs) Why are you acting this way?

MATT: No, I'm just, I'm just enjoying you guys planning and plotting.

SAM: We're just gonna say hey, Sondur, how can we help you?

LAURA: Yeah yeah yeah, like how can we help you? Why are you hurting?

MARISHA: Please give us your bow, yeah.

LAURA: No, no, don't even bring up the bow right now, let's just try to help him out.

MARISHA: So wait, are we here on a mission to cleanse the land? Is that what we're posing as? We're like missionaries?

LAURA: I mean, if we did cleanse the land, that would be a wonderful thing.

TALIESIN: That would be great.

MARISHA: It would be a wonderful thing.

TALIESIN: But we're also getting the bow.

LAURA: The bow is a wonderful thing. I have a pretty fucking cool bow now, I don't even know if this new one's gonna be as cool. You don't even know what Mythcarver does, Titanstone Knuckles aren't advancing at all, who knows? Maybe this bow is shit and the whole point of this is so we can help people.

TALIESIN: I think it'll give you wings so you can fly.

TRAVIS: Can't we just say that we're obsessed with the hundred-foot fucking moving tree in the middle of the Feywild?

LAURA: Maybe we just think it's really cool.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we've come to talk to it, no bullshit.

SAM: We're fanboys.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Yeah, like we've heard tale and it's wonderful.

TRAVIS: We wanna know what's up.

SAM: Great. That sounds like it's gonna end well.

TRAVIS: Well, if he pulls any shit then we kill it.

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: I am going to sleep, there's nothing that can be solved right now that cannot be solved over coffee and bacon.

LAURA: We don't have bacon.

MARISHA: Just chicken and waffles.

TALIESIN: I will make bacon from chicken.

SAM: Chicken-skin bacon.

LAURA: Ooh. That actually sounds really good.

TALIESIN: That actually sounds really good.

LIAM: Tofurkey.

MATT: All right. You guys all taking your long rest?

(Various sounds of agreement.)

MATT: All right, you all–

LIAM: No, I'm going to knock on my sister's door before she falls asleep.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh shit, I'm pretty tired, what's up?

LIAM: Hey, well, you know, we don't get a lot of time to talk alone because everything is so fucked up, but you seemed really on-edge. More than normal, when we lived there before. You know what I'm talking about.

LAURA: Oh, yeah.

LIAM: Are you all right?

LAURA: Um. Yes? I don't know. It's the weirdest thing, I never realized how much it affected me until we actually were faced with it again. It was good, standing in front of him with everyone else, wasn't it?

LIAM: I've… he's not a concern for me anymore. I don't think fondly back on it, we have bigger things on our plates, but I do care how he affects you, and there is no question how much it affected you when Percival made his offer in that room, and I was a little surprised. And I'm not trying to start an argument or anything like that, I know why he did it, of course. And every fairy within a thousand miles of that room could see how deeply it affected you, and it surprised me, because… Look, if that makes you happy, it is to be embraced, and I'm certainly in support of anything that gives our father heartburn, but… I'm sorry, his offer, in your brother's eyes, is a bit like gilding a lily or framing a sunset. You have always been the coolest person I have known, ever, in my life. And you still are. You're already perfect, at least in your brother's eyes. And I guess I just hope you believe in you as much as I do, because it's quite a bit.

LAURA: Thank you. I mean, I can't give back the title, that would be kind of shit.

LIAM: Well, you're a countessa know, I understand, that's what you are.

LAURA: Baroness, no, baroness, actually.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Just a little bit cooler than before. Just a little?

LIAM: Whatever floats your boat, Stubby, but, you know. Just don't wuss out on me now.

LAURA: I won't.

LIAM: All right? You've always been stronger than me, I need you to keep doing that.

LAURA: It's all an act, dear.

LIAM: Bullshit. That's it.

LAURA: I love you. Thank you.

LIAM: I love you too.

LAURA: Go get some sleep. Your feathers are all ruffled.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: All right, so as you separate and go find your own ways to rest, you guys find your way to your dreams for the evening, getting a full night's rest, HP resolved to full, spells returned, and we're gonna go ahead and take a break here, restroom break for a few minutes, we'll see you guys back here in just a minute. Once again, thank you, Lootcrate, you guys are awesome.

ALL: Lootcrate!

MATT: All right, we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.
Break

[break]
Part II

SAM: Lootcrate, lootcrate, lootcrate.

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So, we had a quick break, you guys, coming to consciousness the next morning, freshly rested, the smell of some cooked chicken in the downstairs area and a little bit of chicken-skin bacon…

LAURA: Can I go knock on Percy's door before we head downstairs, just really fast?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Um. Percival?

TALIESIN: Yes, yes, good morning.

LAURA: Sorry. Good morning. I forgot you're grumpy when you wake up.

TALIESIN: It's all right.

LAURA: Look, Vax came and talked to me last night, and he actually reminded me of something that I forgot to say to you, which is: thank you. Seriously. We haven't really had a moment to say anything, and…

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: Really, what you did back in Syngorn was more than I ever expected, and honestly it's-- I don't know of any other time that somebody has stuck up for me quite as much, outside of Vax. So thank you.

TALIESIN: You're welcome. And… it's the lovely thing about a title, and I had one to give, is that it's, when used appropriately and properly, it's mostly there to remind you you don't really need it.

LAURA: Right. Question, though?

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: Because I sort of realized, being a baroness of Whitestone, that I literally owe my fealty and allegiance to… you.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: Well, technically my sister, but yes.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: If that makes you feel a little better.

LAURA: Thank you, Grand Sire de Rolo, and if there's anything you ever need in return, all you have to do is ask.

TALIESIN: Never do that again, that was very weird. It was really, it was… it was worth it to see the look on his face.

LAURA: It was quite wonderful.

TALIESIN: It was quite wonderful. No, and it worked out well, because technically speaking there's only really about 15 foot square that's actually standing that you technically have a baronry over.

LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: And at the moment it is currently a shrine to the Raven Queen, so that works out well.

LAURA: Oh, that's what… so technically we gave it to Zahra, didn't we?

TALIESIN: No, she's just fixing it up for us.

LAURA: Okay, all right.

TALIESIN: We did not give it to her. It wasn't mine to give. Just the title. You're welcome, and… it doesn't change anything.

LAURA: Good, that would be very strange, wouldn't it?

TALIESIN: Yeah. Although I imagine you're eventually going to become very insufferable, but yes.

LAURA: Only sometimes, dear.

TALIESIN: Oh, you have to be… there's a thing. But we'll get to that later. There is a thing, I forgot, there is a thing.

LAURA: Does it have to do with the Hunt?

TALIESIN: Yes, a thing, we'll get to that, it's really not important right now. That's if we survive, that would be very important, but right now it's not.

LAURA: Not… not a given.

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: We might die today.

TALIESIN: We might.

LAURA: I'm gonna get some coffee.

TALIESIN: I think that's an excellent idea. Let me join you.

MATT: You all eventually find your way down, breakfast served in a central dining table with no platters, no silverware.

LAURA: Thanks, Grog.

TRAVIS: It's a mansion! We could eat somewhere else.

MATT: The meals are just placed literally on the table.

TRAVIS: Bare-bones. I like it.

SAM: All right, eat up, let's go.

MATT: You finish your meal, and you guys prepared yourselves, what are you doing?

SAM: We go out into the world, right?

TRAVIS: Bum-rush the tree.

LAURA: Uh-uh.

TALIESIN: I have shoes for everybody.

SAM: Oh!

MARISHA: Yes.

SAM: Those are terrible shoes.

TALIESIN: They're awful, I'm aware.

TRAVIS: We put the shoes on?

LIAM: What do they look like?

TALIESIN: We're going to wear the shoes.

SAM: Yeah, describe them.

TALIESIN: They're swamp shoes. They're circular, they're like large circles, and there's like a base connected to them, and whole thing's connected together with ropes.

MARISHA: Kind of like snowshoes but with more surface area.

TRAVIS: I'm only wearing that if it helps.

TALIESIN: It does. It will keep you from sinking into the muck. It will allow you to, you'll have to walk very slowly, you can't walk very quickly, and if things get hairy you can cut them off, they're just wood and rope, they're not that complicated.

MARISHA: Basically, wood paddles on our feet.

TALIESIN: Yes. Move like a giant frog.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I put the giant frog-shoes on.

MATT: All right, you put them on. You guys exit the mansion?

LIAM: I set the Deathwalker's Ward for necrotic damage.

MATT: Okay, necrotic damage is set. Okay. As you guys emerge–

LAURA: Oh. Wait.

TALIESIN: You don't need them, though. You're the one person who doesn't need them.

LAURA: How long does Protection Against Poison last? Oh, it's only an hour, okay, so no, I don't want to cast it yet.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: But you have that.

LAURA: I do.

MARISHA: I won't take that.

SAM: Maybe now would be, we're going straight to the tree, right?

MARISHA: Are we still doing our–

LAURA: Aren't you going to try to talk to it?

TALIESIN: Talk to it, see what happens, and if everything goes terribly, we just retreat back to the mansion, it's not going anywhere anytime soon.

SAM: Should any of us hide?

TALIESIN: I'm going to keep back in the treeline.

LAURA: I can only cast it on one person, though, Keyleth. I don't have, I'm not as good with spells as you, so if you can do it to multiple people, it might be good.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Do we have any fancy, um, fancy–

LAURA: (posh voice) Fancy?

LIAM: Crystal bowls for Keyleth to crush up and feed us from?

LAURA: What?

SAM: Crystal what?

LAURA: Oh, like a Fancy–

LIAM: Heroes' Feast, yeah.

LAURA: Heroes' Feast? I don't know if we have–

LIAM: Never mind.

MATT: I don't think you have one purchased and ready.

TALIESIN: I don't think we have one.

LIAM: I don't claim to understand anything.

MARISHA: We'd have to make that decision now, while I'm learning my spells at the top of the day.

TALIESIN: No, no.

SAM: Don't do it.

LAURA: We should've done it last night if we were gonna do it.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine.

LAURA: It's gonna be fine, we're all gonna die.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: How are you guys gonna go talk to him, are you just like walking to him?

TALIESIN: A tree is just a door that hasn't been made yet, remember.

MARISHA: That is true. That is an old Druidish proverb.

TALIESIN: It's an old Druidish one?

MARISHA: Yep.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: All right. So. You guys emerge from the mansion?

SAM: Yeah, anyone want to go stealth or anything?

LAURA: Yeah yeah yeah.

SAM: It's just gonna be all of us presenting ourself?

LAURA: Maybe we'll go stealth… well, can a tree see us? I dunno. Let's go stealth.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Why not? And you guys can go talk to it.

SAM: All right.

MATT: Roll stealth checks as you emerge from the mansion, up into the boughs of the tree where you left the exit.

TRAVIS: You don't think we're, like, perfectly on this tree's radar? That going stealth is insulting?

MARISHA: I'm kinda wondering if the tree has a tremor-sense.

LAURA: Oh, that's true. All right, all right, you're right.

SAM: Don't do stealth, I'll present us all as a group.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. You emerge. Still the dusklight, that kind of warm purplish-orange perpetual sunset glow in the sky. The tree there remains. You glance out. That little pocket where the trees were is filled once more. The trees now stand, the pocket is now done.

LAURA: That's where, that's where the hole was! But it's not a hole anymore!

MATT: Make a perception check as you're looking.

LAURA: That's good, that's good. 29.

MATT: 29. About three-quarters of a mile further west from your current location, there is now a different opening in the canopy, similar size, but even further out that way.

LAURA: What the fuck? It's further away. Trees fucking moved. At least it's further away from us and not closer to us.

MARISHA: Wait, is it the same… maybe it is something big blocking it, with like an invisible field? I don't know. I don't know.

MATT: So. What's the plan?

SAM: We have no plan. So let's just walk right up. I take, me and Keyleth take tip of the spear, and we just walk right up to the base of the tree.

LAURA: I float on my broom.

MATT: Okay, so. What's the marching order?

SAM: Scanlan and Keyleth first.

MATT: Scanlan and Keyleth at the front.

LAURA: Oh no, oh no.

MATT: Who's after them?

TRAVIS: I'm in the middle.

MATT: All right, so Grog's up next.

LAURA: Trinket's behind Grog.

MATT: Trinket's behind Grog, all righty. Percy? Vax? Are you guys holding up the rear?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: And you're on the broom above.

LAURA: I'm on the broom, yes.

MATT: All right, got it.

LIAM: I actually think I want to tail Grog.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Thank you.

TALIESIN: I'll take the rear, then.

MATT: All right, so Percy's at the rear, Vax and Trinket are both right behind Grog as you guys push forward. You touch down in the swamp, the actual thickness of the morass, moving forward very slowly with the swamp shoes. Grog, you get two steps before they break under your weight.

TRAVIS: Good.

MARISHA: We tried.

TRAVIS: I take them off.

MATT: Okay. But the rest of you, it does help, you are not sinking. Your progress is very slow, slower than it was previously when you were already at half-speed, but you aren't breaking the surface of the actual substance. It is sticky, and you have to pull it forth, and it is tension put on the ropes, but for the most part, most of you are light of foot, and it's not a huge issue. Except for you. Trinket's just up to his elbows, just (sloshing) through the water.

LAURA: Does he look miserable?

MATT: He's not enjoying himself.

LAURA: Do you wanna go in the crystal? Okay.

MATT: And he just keeps pushing forward.

LIAM: All right, I'm scritching his ears while we walk.

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: You push onward. It's not too far of a distance, it takes you ten or fifteen minutes to reach the very base of the tree where you had previously scoped out. The large roots climb up ten, 12 feet before emerging from the base of this large tree. Maybe, at this point you can look at it now, taller than you thought at a distance. It's roughly 80 to 100 feet in width and probably over 150 to 200 feet tall. It is just a thick, solid, giant tree.

LAURA: That is a huge-ass tree.

SAM: As we approach, I take a little muck and I'm going to draw like a little tree on my forehead and one on Keyleth's forehead as well.

MARISHA: What are you drawing?

SAM: Just like a little mud tree on your forehead.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah.

LIAM: Not a penis at all.

LAURA: Oh, yeah.

MARISHA: How is my tree?

LAURA: Looks kind of like a dick.

MARISHA: Scanlan!

SAM: Don't worry. It's for a good cause.

MATT: You step up to the heavy roots there, and the mass of vines that are all clustered and matted together. What do you do?

TRAVIS: We fan out.

SAM: Just a little bit.

LAURA: Yeah, we kind of branch, we just spread out a little bit.

MATT: All right, so you guys spread out a little bit.

MARISHA: Are we trying to talk to it first?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, talk to it. Be charming.

SAM: I call out to it. Saundor! Saundor, hear us! We are your devotees! We have come to pay homage and respect to you. We follow your ways and your teachings.

MARISHA: And I make myself to look like the tree-dick on my forehead.

SAM: We wear your mark on our heads to show respect. Please show us your power and grant us your blessings.

MATT: Long absence of sound following your statement. Couple of small vines as part of that knotted mess kind of twist tighter and then relax. Does not appear to be any sort of reaction beyond that.

MARISHA: I cast Speak with Plants.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Just repeat–

MARISHA: Are you waiting for me?

MATT: You imbue plants within 30 feet of you with limited sentience and animation, giving them the ability to communicate with you and to follow your simple commands.

MARISHA: Saundor. Can you hear me?

SAM: Question one.

MATT: There is no response.

MARISHA: I am Keyleth from the Air Ashari. Druids of the prime realm. Are you still present?

MATT: This low, cracking, creaking sound of heavy wood on wood-fall begins to slowly emerge in your head. It just says, “I am here.”

MARISHA: We would like to see your heart.

LAURA: What?

SAM: Wow. Straight to it.

LAURA: Just straight-up. Just right in.

SAM: Just straight to it. Just go straight for… I wanna spend the night with you. Just straight there.

MATT: There's a pause. You hear, (snapping sounds), and you notice the vines, some are pulling and snapping while others begin to slowly pull apart. That giant mass of vines that are clustered between two of the large roots that merge with the tree? Begin to untangle and fall free, revealing what appears to be a slowly opening pathway into the tree itself. You now see what looks to be about four and a half feet tall and about three feet wide, a tunnel, like a crack in the bark itself, that disappears into darkness deeper into the tree.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Me and my fellow companions are coming in.

LAURA: No, this is so stupid.

SAM: Coming in?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Wait, how big is it?

MARISHA: I go in first.

SAM: Wait, you're going in?

LAURA: What, you're just going in?

SAM: Going with Kiki.

TALIESIN: Going in.

TRAVIS: You said four and a half feet…

MATT: Four and a half feet tall, about three feet wide.

LAURA: So we can all fit in.

MATT: Well, you're gonna have to practically crawl to get in there, Grog.

TRAVIS: Not this guy.

LAURA: You can fit in there.

MATT: You can fit, but you're gonna have to crawl.

MARISHA: Just army crawl.

LAURA: Can Trinket fit through?

LIAM: It's gonna be a squeaker.

MATT: Trinket's gonna have to get down and like–

SAM: Your Pokeball.

LAURA: I know, I can just put him in the crystal and then–

MATT: You can do that too, yeah.

LAURA: I'll put him in the crystal.

MATT: Okay. Trinket into the Raven's Slumber.

SAM: Do you want to stay outside?

LAURA: Grog, you can do it.

TRAVIS: Not normally.

LAURA: Turn your shoulders.

TALIESIN: (chicken noises)

LIAM: Could you pour some Crisco out of that magic jug of yours and lube up?

LAURA: Yeah, oil yourself up, real good.

MATT: Just Winnie the Pooh you through?

SAM: Mayonnaise. Mayonnaise is slippery. Butter.

LIAM: This is Sparta. Come on.

TRAVIS: I'm going in, I'm going in.

MATT: Oh, bother.

LAURA: Oh, bother.

MATT: I don't know why he's British suddenly. All right, so, marching order. Who's going in first?

MARISHA: Me.

MATT: Keyleth.

SAM: And me second.

MATT: And Scanlan, who's going in after them?

LIAM: I am.

LAURA: Then me, behind him.

MATT: Vax, Vex.

TALIESIN: Then me.

MATT: Percy. And then finally Grog.

LAURA: Grog!

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Bringing up the rear this time, Grog.

MATT: So.

LIAM: Here comes the general.

MATT: As you begin to make your way into this entrance to the tree–

LAURA: Oh no. We are so dumb.

MATT: This scent catches you as soon as you step five, ten feet into the darkness.

LAURA: It smells like fart?

MATT: It's metallic, iron-like. Sharp, acrid, uninviting. As you step inside and your hand touches the inside of the entranceway, Keyleth, as soon as your fingers make contact with the slick wood, there's an image that flashes in your head.

LAURA: Oh, god.

SAM: The whispers, the whispers.

LAURA: Oh no.

SAM: Oh my gosh.

LAURA: Don't hit that.

MARISHA: Watch the–

LAURA: That would be so bad.

SAM: Oh boy.

LAURA: I'm gonna smack his ass right now. Whack!

SAM: Ordinarily I would plug Lootcrate right here, but this is too tense.

MARISHA: Wait wait wait.

TALIESIN: Way too tense to talk about all the great things Lootcrate will send you every month.

SAM: Way too tense, yeah, I'm too nervous to remember the three-dollar-a-month discount that you would get by signing up–

TRAVIS: That's Lootcrate.com/crates.

LAURA: No, it's /criticalrole. And it'll take you to crates.

TALIESIN: Crates will just show you everything they have.

MARISHA: We're not alone.

SAM: What do you mean?

LAURA: What do you mean?

SAM: There's creatures?

MARISHA: He's watching us.

SAM: Who?

LAURA: Saundor.

MATT: As you're saying this, your hand's following the side, and it opens up again. You only have about five feet of walking before this tiny tunnel opens up into an interior chamber.

TRAVIS: Well, I hope he's watching. We just crawled in his tree anus.

MATT: His tranus?

(All laugh.)

SAM: Ah, Matt.

LIAM: Bad DM.

MARISHA: Saundor. Is this you leading us straight to you?

MATT: Nothing.

TRAVIS: How about we hit the wall?

LAURA: No! We're trapped in the tree.

SAM: I will, I'll try one more time and just say, Saundor, we are… Saundorites, here to pay homage to you. Please, show yourself and make us feel your presence.

MATT: Are you guys still entering, or have you stopped?

LAURA: (sings) Oh, Saundor… (stops singing) We're walking forward, we're walking forward.

MATT: Because some of you are still outside of the tree.

TALIESIN: Still going in.

MATT: Okay. So you all eventually make your way inside this space.

MARISHA: I look at Scanlan and wipe the tree-dick off my forehead.

MATT: Okay, it's pitch-black in here, by the way.

SAM: (whispering) It's our sign!

MATT: Percy, you see nothing. The rest of you have some semblance of dark-vision here, so you can see, the interior here, it is wall-to-wall vines and thick, heavy roots. You are definitely on the inside of the tree, this portion of the giant hollow chamber. You can see it kind of lifts up. Entangled webs of these branches and smaller, long-dead trees jutting out inside, like actual smaller physical trees within the large tree. As you all enter, the little bit of light behind you, Grog? Begins to shrink, and you look over your shoulder as the entrance you came through slams closed and you are all left in darkness.

LAURA: We're just stuck in a tree now.

TRAVIS: Well, he puckered up.

MATT: The smell gets stronger and stronger. At that point, as Grog, you kind of pull your way through, and you're all standing shoulder-to-shoulder in this dark space, this one singular tree root that's sticking up from the center in two different places. This thin, reedy voice begins to echo through, sourceless around you, that says, “I know you. The moment you touched my sickness, I knew you.” At this moment, small patches of fungal clusters begin to illuminate in the room. Areas of the vines and ground just spring to life, and this dull blue glow begins to fill the room with very, very low light. You can just make out shapes. You can see that the vines are just very slowly shifting around you. The walls are not still. That little bit of movement you'd occasionally catch on the outside of the tree, it is perpetual inside here. It is this constant churning mass of living tree. You look up, and you can see all the branches come and mat together into this conical ceiling, where a number of vines drip down and just hang, hundreds of them. You see the vines are slowly coalescing in the center of this upward kind of pinnacle. Slithering one into the next like a thousand slithering snakes. A voice comes out again. “Why do you come here, children of the lost? What purpose brings you to Saundor's madness and pain?”

LAURA: We've come to help you.

MATT: A mass in the ceiling separates ever so slightly, and you watch as two feet descend from this strange apex. You now see the feet are a full creature, held aloft by connected tendrils of black plant matter, emanating from the back and shoulders, as it slowly descends from the ceiling. A thin, elf-like individual, their body comprised of hundreds of small plants, leaves, and thorns. The only semblance of flesh you see across the face is the nose, the eyes, and the mouth. The rest of it just slowly giving way to a similar nest of plant-like vines that completely fill the exterior of this room. It slowly touches down, its feet hitting the ground, and as it does, the tendrils all detach and withdraw back into the ceiling, leaving it there, arms to its side, its head down. Its face comes up, its eyes immediately open with this bright yellow glow that kind of bathes you. You can see the form, the edges of all of your allies now, even being framed by this light that's just pouring forth from its face.

LAURA: I bow.

LIAM: Follow suit.

SAM: Sure, I'll bow as well.

MATT: You all bow before this creature. Do you bow? All right.

MARISHA: I stand as well.

MATT: All right. “You all come here, but one of you is the reason.” It looks straight towards you. The light focuses and narrows from his eyes. “You. Sweet, broken Vex'ahlia. Unwanted daughter, unproven ally. Selfish and cruel. You drive those whom you would call family into danger and death for your own gain. I understand you.” There's a softness and sadness to the face as he takes one step in your direction. “You are lost without form. Without knowing who you are, child. You stand shattered by expectation. Presenting an illusion of confidence. Behind it, you never left that bloodied girl, dagger in hand, body at your feet. You are a killer, run as you may. The tears you cry are not in vain, my sweet, my dear Vex'ahlia. You can rise above your trembling destiny. I have lived a thousand years and a day. I have seen many things. I can grant many gifts.”

LAURA: Are we still pretending to like this fuck?

SAM: Nope.

LAURA: I don't want anything you offer.

MATT: “You mistake. My intent is not to hurt, but to understand. I see lots of my youth in you. We are not as different as you may think. You have things I do not. Companionship. I have been without for so very long. And the ones I have let in have hurt me so very deeply.” His eyes actually cast away from you for a second and he steps back into place. Almost seems to, his confident form withdraws into this almost hanging, sad position.

LAURA: You've been betrayed.

MATT: We all have in some degree, yes.

LAURA: Is that why you are what you are now?

MATT: I don't even remember. I just know that I'm alone and she left me there.

LAURA: She? Who is she?

MATT: Memories have faded. I just want someone to understand me, that's all. Can you understand me?

LAURA: Saundor. I understand.

MATT: “Is there trust in you?” His form steps forward once more, his head tilted, looking at you curiously.

LAURA: You want to be loved.

MATT: I wish a bond. A companion once more. Would you embrace me? Embrace your rebirth? I could give you so much.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: I could give you the means to protect them. Your home.

LAURA: What would you ask in return?

MATT: Your heart.

LAURA: My heart is someone else's. And I pull my bow.

MATT: He withdraws a moment. The tendrils whip out again and connect into his back, and he's pulled aloft, back, further in. “All I ask is one who knows my pain. What is your answer?”

LAURA: I release the arrow.

MATT: Roll an attack.

LAURA: I'm sorry, I feel so guilty about it!

MATT: Roll an attack.

SAM: He just wanted a kiss and you shot him!

MARISHA: He's a dick.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll damage.

SAM: Just a lonely guy.

LAURA: 16.

TALIESIN: I have no respect for anyone who says we're not so different.

MATT: 16 points of piercing damage.

LIAM: And shitting black diarrhea out of the tree.

MATT: As the arrow hits his form as he's being pulled up– (gasps)– you hear the air escape like he had the wind knocked out of him. His glowing yellow eyes blink, blink, and his jaw kind of hangs open. There in the low-lit darkness. And you watch as more of that black, thick tar just begins to pour from his mouth onto the ground, splattering and seeping into the floor. His jaw slowly closes. “Then I am to be alone.” He reaches his hand up, and you watch–

MARISHA: Oh shit!

MATT: – as these vines reveal and give to him this large curved bow that he grasps in his hand. The other vines curl around his body, and you can see his form begin to build, like his actual body begins to grow as the vines become part of him. His face of flesh disappears behind an exterior of dark and gnarled wood. The voice grows deep as he all of a sudden withdraws into the side of the tree itself, and then bursts forth, landing on the ground. Not an elf-like entity, but some sort of gnarled root-like tree creature, holding Fenthras in one hand.

LAURA: Was that bad? Should I have not attacked him?

SAM: You did great.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: No, no, he was being terrible.

LAURA: We should probably–

MATT: Your choice is made.

LAURA: I call out Trinket–

MATT: Become another memory here and keep me company in oblivion.

SAM: Oh, god.

MATT: The two dead trees quake and begin to lift up–

MARISHA: Oh, fuck.

MATT: – from the sides of the tree. Everyone roll initiative.

TALIESIN: Oh.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: I feel so guilty.

MARISHA: No, he was a fucking cock.

LAURA: He was terrible, was it mean?

MARISHA: No, dude.

LAURA: Okay, we're in the tree, we're in the tree.

MARISHA: Like you said, I don't trust anyone who says we're alike, you and I.

SAM: What, were you gonna give him a hug and get possessed forever?

LAURA: I know, he's offering terrible things, right?

TALIESIN: He was a dick.

MARISHA: I also don't like anyone who tries to act like we didn't make our own choice to come in here.

TALIESIN: And for that matter, anybody who says we're not so different, that's usually a sign of a terrible person.

MARISHA: That we're totally different.

TALIESIN: Terrible person.

SAM: Because we're terrible people.

TALIESIN: Well, that's very fair.

LIAM: He's creeping on my sister, fuck him.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I was only not shooting him to be polite.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

MATT: All right, so. 25 to 20, anybody?

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: 21.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: Just so you know, your notepad is in the upper-left.

LIAM: Secrets.

LAURA: (laughs) Scootch-scootch.

MATT: All right, and so. Vax, Percy, 21, er, 20 to 15?

TRAVIS: 18.

MARISHA: 15.

SAM: 15.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: I got that one hit and that was all I got. I'm sorry.

MATT: All right, and then…

LAURA: 14.

MATT: 14? Okay. All righty. So, top of the round, Vax. You have first up. You're currently over here.

LIAM: Yeah. I can see fuck-all through this magical window–

MATT: I understand.

LIAM: So I see where I am in that circle, what are the big clumps of poop in the middle?

MATT: This right here is part of the root that is growing up in the center of this tree. There are two trees on the side that are shifting, and the actual large dark-rooted form that is now Saundor is over here on the far side.

LIAM: All right, boots click, uh, I am hanging back behind– is Trinket out still?

LAURA: He's out. Oh. I haven't brought him out yet, I haven't brought him out.

MATT: No.

LIAM: All right. Then I'm just leaning out from behind Grog and I am going to dagger-dagger-dagger him.

MATT: All righty, go for it.

LIAM: And I'm first to attack so I have advantage.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: Okay, so the first hit is a 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

LIAM: Yeah, second is a 26.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: And the third is a 21.

MATT: 21. All three hit.

LIAM: Okay, so the first one is sneak attack.

MATT: It is.

LIAM: This one is the flame-tongue, here it goes. Six and seven, here comes the sneak attack damage.

MATT: All the sneak attack damage!

LIAM: Say again?

MATT: Percy, you're up next, just so you're aware.

LIAM: (mumbling) 30 for the first.

MATT: 30, nice.

LIAM: Seven for the second, and eight for the third.

MATT: Great, all right. You, tapping the boots, rush out behind Grog, fling all three daggers, all seem to stick into the wood-armored exterior of Saundor's treant form. You see he kind of pulls back a bit from the impact. Damage definitely has been sustained unexpectedly.

LIAM: Where am I in relation to the party, to my sister?

MATT: You're right there, your sister is right there. So you're about 10 feet from her.

LIAM: I'm gonna just roll forward and crouch in front of her low, to give her a shot but be in front of her.

MATT: All righty. There you go. All right, that finishes your turn. That brings us to Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to dart to the right and keep about 10 to 15 feet distance away from the exterior wall, because that looks creepy as fuck.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: About there. First thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pull out Bad News and I'm gonna take a shot, and I'm gonna try and disarm him.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So. We'll see if that does anything. Natural 20.

LAURA: Yes!

SAM: At least five a session.

LIAM: That loaded die was the best investment we ever made.

TALIESIN: It was the best, it was such a wonderful, wonderful–

SAM: Did a fan give that to you?

TALIESIN: A fan gave that to me, yes they did.

MATT: All right, natural 20.

TALIESIN: Natural 20, and that means I don't even burn the grit for it, and that's arm-shot, so. Strength saving throw against a DC 19.

MATT: That is 21, so yeah, it manages to maintain it.

TALIESIN: Okay, so it maintains it. I forgot to cast Hex, but god damn it. That's fine. So, taking my shot…

MATT: Dice times two.

TALIESIN: That went well. That's 19 times two, that's 38.

MATT: 38 points of damage.

TALIESIN: That's 44 points of damage.

MATT: 44 points of damage on the critical hit.

TALIESIN: Of piercing damage. I'm gonna reload.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna cast Hex.

MATT: The impact manages to hit part of the wood, it splinters, not doing as much damage as you'd expect it would.

TALIESIN: That's fine.

MATT: It's still a nice hit, but the form seemed to resist it–

TALIESIN: Seems to be taking it. That's fine. I'm casting Hex.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm giving him disadvantage on strength saving throws.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna take another shot–

MATT: Ability checks, not saving throws.

TALIESIN: Yeah, checks, excuse me. I'm gonna take another shot at getting that damn bow out of his hand. So we'll see if we can do that. Yeah, that's a 19, so that's 32 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: He can roll his saving throw.

MATT: 17, so no.

TALIESIN: So no, he drops the bow.

MATT: The bow gets dropped.

SAM: Oh, shit!

TALIESIN: Bow's on the ground.

MARISHA: Oh, bow's on the ground, bow's on the ground.

TALIESIN: That's a terrible roll. That's okay. So that's ten points of piercing damage and two points of necrotic damage.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: How do you want to do this?

MATT: So you fire the second shot, does hit, a little crack of impact, the wood on the exterior splinters a bit, the necrotic hit does still push through. All right, that finishes your turn, as Fenthras gets blasted off, a finger's actually missing from the impact. A finger begins to grow back.

TALIESIN: Bow's on the ground!

MATT: All right, Grog. Actually, no, before you're up, we're at count 20. All right.

SAM: Count 20.

LAURA: What's that mean?

MARISHA: What does that mean?

MATT: So. Suddenly the ground quakes for a second, part of the roots expand–

TALIESIN: Oh, shit.

SAM: Lair actions.

MATT: – and a cloud of gas begins to fill a small area about that big.

LAURA: Oh, of course.

MATT: I need Scanlan, Keyleth, Vax, and Vex to make a constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: Where's that dice?

LIAM: Oh, that's our specialty.

MARISHA: Yeah, right? Not bad.

LAURA: Oh, natural 20!

MATT: Nice.

LIAM: I'm gonna burn a Luck. 16.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: 20 total, 20 total.

SAM: 20 total.

MATT: Okay.

(All laugh.)

MATT: All of you guys manage to just in time–

TRAVIS: He's pissed.

MATT: – catch your breath and keep below the poison cloud as it dissipates in the vicinity of you, so you reduce the damage to each of you guys to be 12 points of poison damage to all of you guys.

MARISHA: Damn. That's half.

MATT: So that's 12 points of poison damage to each one of you guys. Now, Grog, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: I would like to advance– I would like to rage.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: I would like to advance as far as I can get towards the treant.

MATT: You can get right there, you're not quite close enough to hit.

TRAVIS: Hey, that's cool, and I'm gonna use the chain of returning with the blood axe, and I'm gonna throw it at the tree.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: At Saundor.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: That's not great. Oh! 20 total.

MATT: 20 total? All righty.

(background music becomes distorted)

LAURA: Oh no. We gotta get a new cable, a new cable for you.

SAM: It's dying.

MATT: I know, I have a new iPad coming, actually.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: It's in the budget, having issues, strangely. Which is a shame, because this works really well for this battle. I dunno. Maybe.

SAM: Music help!

MATT: I'll try.

MARISHA: Oh, that got so awkwardly quiet.

LAURA: Oh no, it's all…

MATT: Yeah, I don't wanna tear it. Whatever, it's fine, it's fine.

MARISHA: It just sounds weird inside the tree…

TALIESIN: Acoustics.

MARISHA: Acoustics.

SAM: If anyone works for Apple and wants to send us all new iPads.

(All laugh.)

TALIESIN: iPhones. iPad Pros.

MARISHA: Preferably in rose gold.

(The music comes back in, less distorted.)

SAM: Better? Better!

LAURA: That sounds better.

MATT: It's working better.

MARISHA: Yes, much better. Much better.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: You're good.

MATT: Okay, cool. We're good.

SAM: Forget those iPads.

MATT: So, Grog, what was your attack roll?

TRAVIS: It was a 20 total.

MATT: That does just barely hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24 points–

TRAVIS: Ahh, plus… four points of necrotic damage, for 28.

MATT: 28 points of damage. The axe, with all your heaving might behind it, travels the ten feet to slam into the chest of Saundor. Reaches up and tries to grab it, smashing it between his hands to hold it there. Go ahead and make your strength to pull it back.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18, yeah, that works fine, okay.

MARISHA: It appeared he took damage from the necrotic?

MATT: Yeah, he did.

TRAVIS: On Percy's and mine.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: So he can take necrotic damage.

TALIESIN: Apparently he can.

LAURA: That's good, that's good.

MARISHA: Good to know.

MATT: But not as impacting on the necrotic damage as much as you'd hoped.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: On the necrotic damage.

TRAVIS: But Liam did, I mean, Vax did something.

MATT: Yeah, you guys have all done damage to him, it was just generally lesser than you hoped it would be.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yours was surprisingly good.

LAURA: Piercing damage…

MATT: Well, his just, he just sneak attacked.

TALIESIN: We haven't found a winner.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Sneak-attack damage.

TALIESIN: We haven't found a winner, we've just been hitting him really god damned hard.

MATT: But anyway. So you pull the axe back, grab it from the chain, it's back in your grip, you're fine, you're good to go. Does that end your turn?

TRAVIS: That does.

MATT: All right, at the end of your turn, he's gonna go ahead and burn two legendary actions to cast a spell.

LAURA: Oh no! He's like a dragon!

MATT: All right. I need– (laughs)

LAURA: I should've just gone evil.

MATT: I need everyone, all of you, to make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Is he casting a spell?

MATT: He is, yes.

SAM: I will attempt to Counterspell it.

MATT: Okay. All right, go ahead and make your d20 plus six.

SAM: I'm gonna go at level five.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Level five. What do I, d20 plus six?

MATT: Correct.

SAM: 24.

MATT: 24?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Hell yeah.

MATT: He goes to create this spell, and suddenly it fizzles in midair, unable to actually take effect.

(Sam rings a bell.)

MARISHA: Hell yeah, Scanlan! Hell yeah.

(All laugh.)

MATT: All right, so that finishes that. Ending Grog's turn, the legendary actions return now.

SAM: Return?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: But he's just used them!

MATT: Yeah, it comes back at the end of his next round. At the beginning of his round, you watch as his form begins to seal up the wounds he had taken, beginning to heal ever-so-slightly.

LAURA: It's his turn now.

MATT: He reaches down and grabs the bow from the ground, and you watch as he sinks down into the ground, roots reaching up and grabbing him, and he vanishes into the bottom of the tree.

MARISHA: Whoa. Yeah. That makes sense. It's what I would do.

SAM: He's getting that invisible figurine that he has.

MATT: And reemerges–

SAM: Oh, hi. Hi, friend.

MATT: – way up in the top of the tree, out of the branches up there, his upper torso extends outward and he pulls back the bow–

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: – and begins just unleashing arrows that are forming out of his hand, these thin thorn-like arrows are built out of his viny-like arm, and he pulls back and releases them as they snap as arrows towards you guys. He's going to make a bramble-shot attack at you, Grog.

SAM: Bramble-shot. Sounds tasty.

MATT: That is going to be 21.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: That hits. All right. So you take 14 points of piercing damage, reduced to half, so you take seven points, plus four points of lightning damage.

TRAVIS: Lightning damage?

(Computer alert sound.)

SAM: Hi, hi Liam.

LIAM: Not my computer.

MATT: Plus an additional 18 points of piercing damage.

TRAVIS: Halved?

MATT: Halved to nine.

LAURA: Wow.

MATT: As the arrow hits you, and then bursts into a series of jagged, thorny vines that wrap around you. I need you to make a strength saving throw.

TRAVIS: That's pretty awesome.

TALIESIN: We're gonna set him on fire, we're gonna hit him with light, we're gonna hit him with things.

MARISHA: I was thinking fire too.

LAURA: Lightning. Lightning? Has anybody tried electricity yet?

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22. You feel the bramble vines wrap around you and try to hold you in place, and you just angrily burst out of them.

SAM: Yes!

LAURA: Yes!

MARISHA: Fuck yeah!

MATT: You are not restrained.

SAM: Yes, for once.

MARISHA: (laughing) Yeah, you're not grappled.

MATT: He's gonna go ahead and unleash two more arrows–

LAURA: Shit, Jesus.

MATT: – this time towards you, as he's kind of focused now on the–

LAURA: Both of them at me?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Rejection's a bitch.

MARISHA: Yeah, rejection.

MATT: He's not too happy with being rejected, it seems.

MARISHA: He's been alone for too long.

MATT: The first one is 24 to hit.

LAURA: That hits.

MATT: Second is a 25 to hit.

LAURA: Both hit.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I'm gonna die.

MATT: So you take–

MARISHA: No, you're not.

SAM: Nah, you'll be fine. (whispering) She's dead. She's dead. She's definitely dead.

MATT: 13 points of damage with one lightning, and, that's a lucky roll, eight points of piercing damage with one lightning.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: As two additional arrows just wh-whack! right inside of you, and you look down and can see these large, thin stiletto-like wooden forms that are just pierced into your armor and cut into your flesh.

LAURA: Is that plus one additional lightning damage, you mean?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, so 14 and nine?

MATT: Right. Yep. That's gonna end Saundor's turn. The two dead trees that you saw quaking on the sides suddenly burst out, the roots becoming legs, and you watch as two treants emerge from the sides of the tree.

TRAVIS: Oh, I was joking when I said it.

TALIESIN: You shouldn't have been.

SAM: Oh my god.

MATT: Large sort of freed and sentient trees begin stomping forward towards you guys. This one is going to go ahead and rush up to you folks, while this one is gonna go right for Percy, which is right in its side there.

SAM: God, this is a tough one.

MATT: Two slam attacks against you, Percy.

MARISHA: Ooh, fuck.

MATT: That is a 19 to hit.

TALIESIN: That hits.

MATT: And a natural 20.

TALIESIN: That doesn't hit.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: That sucked. For you. Right, so the first hit, you take 17 points of bludgeoning damage. The second hit, 28 points of bludgeoning damage, as the giant tree just whack! And as soon as you try and get out of the way, the giant fist comes down and slams you right across the neck and shoulders, causing you to take a knee, and you can feel the muscle pop from some sort of overextension. The giant tree now, you can see its bark contorted in this angry face as it pours more of that black oil-like liquid out of the corner of its mouth. The other one that's rushed up against the two of you is going to go ahead and take one hit against you, Vex, and two hits against you, Vax. Sorry, it only gets two slams. One on each. My apologies. One against you, Vex, is going to be sixteen.

LAURA: Oh, it misses.

SAM: Hey!

MATT: You duck out of the way and it actually slams the large root tree to the front of you. The other one goes to Vax. That is going to be a 26 to hit.

LIAM: Oh yeah. Uncanny dodge.

MATT: Okay, so you take–

LIAM: Oh, at disadvantage, excuse me, because of the cloak of displacement.

MATT: Rolled an 18 on the second one, so it still hits you. So that effect goes away, but you would take 18 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to nine because of your Uncanny Dodge. All right, that ends their turn. Now it is Scanlan and Keyleth's turn. What are you guys doing?

SAM: Preference?

MARISHA: I'm gonna go for the ents.

SAM: I'm gonna go for the big guy.

MARISHA: All right. So you go first, then.

SAM: All right. I'm gonna go a couple steps to the right, like split the difference between me and Percy.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: I will cast, I will use the wand of… well, jeez, lightning or fire, lightning or fire.

MARISHA: Fire.

LAURA: Try fire.

SAM: Wand of fireballs, I'll use three charges.

MARISHA: Fuck yeah.

SAM: At the big guy upstairs.

MATT: Up there?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Pew-pew.

LAURA: Big guy upstairs. Santa Claus?

MARISHA: The CEO of this tree.

MATT: DC of what on the spell?

SAM: 15.

MATT: That, yeah, he makes his save with a 19. So half-damage, go ahead and roll that, five charges?

SAM: I'm going to use three, I get three charges and then two more is five… yeah, five. Yes, five.

MATT: Yes, so–

SAM: So it's 10d6.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Okay. Six, eight, 14, 16, 17. 23… 28, 32. 33.

MATT: 33.

SAM: Halved.

MATT: Half that for 15, or 16 actually, sorry. 16 points of fire damage as the Fireball bursts up where you can see some of the roots are blown off and a bit of the upper ceiling collapses and hangs for a second.

LAURA: Did it look like it actually affected him, the fire?

MATT: It looked like he took damage from it, yeah.

TRAVIS: It didn't catch fire.

MATT: It didn't seem to catch fire, no. In fact, the decaying liquid it seems to be spewing out of it, it's almost–

TRAVIS: A natural retardant?

MATT: Yeah, it's preventing any flame from catching on the creature in the vicinity as the flames slowly go out. The vines begin to reform to close up the ceiling, and you see Saundor is still kind of gliding through the vines and using them to move along the upper outside of the tree. Is that going to be the end of your movement?

SAM: Yeah, I'll use a bonus action, gah, do I heal or do I inspire? What's more helpful here? I will heal Percy a little bit. I can only cast Healing Word at level one as a bonus action, right?

MATT: You can cast it at any level you want to as a bonus action.

SAM: Oh, okay.

MATT: Since you didn't actually cast a spell, you used the wand.

SAM: Oh, that's true. Okay, well then I'll do it at, uh, level two.

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: I don't know what I'm gonna need today. It's 2d4 plus five.

TALIESIN: Okay. Do you roll that or do I?

SAM: I do.

MATT: Plus six, technically, because your charisma went up.

SAM: Ooh! Oh, nice. I will sing to him, let's see if I can do this. “Come on, come on, get your Scanlan on, it's Thursday night and it won't be long, gonna play my flute, play my shawm, it's Thursday night and it won't be long 'til I get your health up, get your health up, I got all you need, no I don't shoot bows, I don't swing swords, but damn I can sing.”

(All cheer.)

MATT: You take that god damn inspiration.

MARISHA: That was really good!

LIAM: Sang for his supper.

SAM: 4d4 plus six. Er. Four plus six, ten. Ten, ugh!

LAURA: Ten is better than nothing!

MARISHA: That's pretty good.

MATT: Ten hit points as the song pushes your healing at a rapid pace because it's so inspiring. All right. Are you staying where you are, Scanlan?

SAM: I already moved a little bit, I'm gonna stick right there, yeah.

MATT: Yeah, you moved ten feet, so you're gonna stay there? Okay. Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay, so these trees that are moving appear to be living trees more or less, correct?

MATT: Appear to be, yeah. From what you can tell.

MARISHA: I'm gonna cast Tree Stride on myself.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And then I'm gonna go into fire elemental form and flame on.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

LAURA: Oh shit, girl!

SAM: Have you done that before?

MARISHA: No, and I don't know if it's really gonna work.

SAM: You're Johnny Storm?

LAURA: Flame on!

MARISHA: Oh, I've been a fire elemental before, yeah.

MATT: So you're gonna move next to this tree, then? Is that what you're gonna do?

MARISHA: Well, I'm casting Tree Stride.

MATT: Right, but Tree Stride, you have to, you have the ability to enter a tree. You must use five feet of movement to enter a tree.

MARISHA: Right. I'm casting Tree Stride because it's a concentration that lasts a minute.

MATT: Right.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to use my bonus action to flame on.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: This is pretty cool.

MARISHA: If this works.

MATT: Where once was Keyleth is now a fire elemental.

LAURA: I fell over, I was so impressed.

MARISHA: All the rage of the fire ashari. And then I'm going to enter inside that treant right in front of me.

LAURA: She's going to enter inside of it.

MARISHA: I'm going to very nicely enter it with its permission and consent.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to multi-attack.

MATT: So you're using this to just stay within the tree while punching it on fire.

MARISHA: Well, ideally, because as per the rules of Tree Stride, I may use, I instantly know the location of all other trees of the same kind and as part of my movement I can pass into any other trees of my choice of that same kind.

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: So I'm gonna take this guy on for right now.

MATT: Okay, go for it. So, make your attack rolls against this treant.

TRAVIS: Interesting, Keyleth.

TALIESIN: You are doing some crazy shit.

LAURA: Crazy shit.

MARISHA: We'll see.

SAM: We brought a gun to a tree-fight.

(All laugh.)

MARISHA: Those are pretty good. The first hit, sorry, I don't know my… I'm trying to find what I add here. Okay. So the first one is going to be 25 to hit.

MATT: 25 hits, yep.

MARISHA: And the second one's going to be 16.

MATT: Just barely hits.

MARISHA: Fuck yeah.

LIAM: (Malone voice) They send one of yours to the Feywild, you send one of theirs to the morgue.

(All laugh.)

MATT: Don't forget your additional, because even if you're a fire elemental you still get your additional fire damage.

MARISHA: Flame hands, which is an additional d6, correct?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: So I am rolling 2d6 plus three twice, so I'll do 4d… or, I'll roll 3d6 twice. First one… not bad. Eight plus five is 13, plus another three, so 16. 16 for the first one.

MATT: 16 points of fire damage, all right. All right, the next one?

MARISHA: The next one is 14.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And until the creature takes an action to douse the fire, the target takes– oh, it also, anything that if I move within, it immediately takes 1d10 damage whenever I move into its space.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll another d10.

MARISHA: Nine.

SAM: Also, if it's a tree it instantly dies.

LAURA: That's just the rule, that's just what it says.

MATT: You notice as you tear into its body with the Tree Stride to open it up, it looks down confused as you pull into it and then just begin pummeling and scraping the inside of its form. As you do so, from the inside, what little bit of fire retardant-like black liquid was somewhat dried or coated on these, not as thick as it was on Saundor, not only has it caught fire but the wood here is very, very ready for kindling, and it's vulnerable to fire, everything in that was doubled, so you just tear into it–

(All yell.)

MATT: You just watch as this treant has a flaming elemental in its stomach just bursting forth in gouts of fire. You watch as it begins to crack up the center and parts of it are just bursting into flames and burning at the top.

LAURA: Holy crap.

MATT: It's having a bad day right now.

LAURA: Keyleth. Serious.

MATT: Is that the end of your turn?

MARISHA: That I am satisfied with, yes.

MATT: All right. Ending Keyleth's turn, that brings us to Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. I'm gonna step just a little bit away from that flaming tree.

MARISHA: Yes. It is now a safety hazard.

LAURA: To the side, I'm just gonna step to the side. Yeah.

MARISHA: Careful for falling limbs.

LAURA: I'm gonna Hunter's Mark Saundor, damn it.

MATT: Okay, as you pull back it does get an attack of opportunity on you.

LAURA: Aw.

MATT: That is an 18 plus ten, 28.

LAURA: Oh, fuck.

MATT: So you take–

SAM: A billion.

MATT: – 17 points of bludgeoning damage as you rush back–

LAURA: Motherfucker.

MATT: – and the flaming treant just reaches out and strikes you across the back of the head, almost sending you tumbling to the ground. Giant dull thud in the back, you can feel the headache growing in your skull, but you continue forward.

LAURA: Ah! (strained) Fuck you. Okay. I Hunter's Mark Sandor. Sandor?

MARISHA: Saundor.

TALIESIN: Saundor.

LAURA: Saundor, Saundor. Sandor is in Game of Thrones.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: And then I'm going to attack him with the sky sentinel bow.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: (nervous noises) 17 on the first one.

MATT: Misses.

LAURA: Natural 20 on the second one.

MARISHA: What up!

LAURA: And 19 on the third.

MATT: Misses.

LAURA: Fucking balls mother bitch, okay, wow.

MATT: But the critical hit, so go ahead and roll damage for the critical.

LAURA: So what, do I just double all my dice?

MATT: Yeah, double the dice and then add the bonus at the end.

SAM: How's the Sky bar?

MARISHA: I think this is caramel? Nope, fudge.

TALIESIN: Oh, you got the fudge end.

MARISHA: I got the fudge end.

LAURA: 16 times two is 32, yeah? Plus seven, plus two. 41.

MATT: 41 points of damage.

LAURA: On the first attack. And then I'll attack him again. 'Cause that was just one.

MATT: Right, that was the sky sentinel. You didn't double the bonus, right, that was just the dice roll?

LAURA: Nope, I just doubled the dice.

MATT: Shit, yeah, with Hunter's Mark, yeah, that's slick. All right, go for it.

LAURA: Okay, so the second one, I'm gonna attack him through the blazing bowstring.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: And that is a 30.

MATT: 30 hits, yes.

TRAVIS: How high is Saundor?

MATT: He is roughly 30 feet up.

TALIESIN: At the very least, I might try and get him to drop the bow, and then you're gonna be the one who has to grab it if things get…

LAURA: Is 14 plus eight, is 22. 22 on the second.

MATT: 22 points of damage. Nice.

LAURA: And that was with eight points of fire damage. I don't know if that matters.

LIAM: Is he pressed against the roof of this chamber?

MATT: He's getting up towards the roof, yeah.

LIAM: Towards it.

MATT: As the two arrows shhhk to the side, the one single arrow pierces into the side of his chest and arm where Percy had shot before, and the arrow disappears into the side, and you see a burst of electrical energy causing the one arm that was getting ready to pull one of its thorny arrows kind of goes limp for a second, and a second arrow just shoots right in the side of the face and is now protruding from underneath his cheekbone. (angry breathing)

LAURA: And for my movement, can I get on my broom for my movement?

MATT: You'd have to–

LAURA: I'd have to pull it out.

MATT: Your broom is kind of slung over your shoulder.

LAURA: Right. Okay. Then I'm just gonna… I feel like anywhere I go it's danger-zone in here. I'm gonna try to hide behind that tree in the middle, but I feel like that's a bad idea. Yeah.

MATT: You're right there.

LAURA: I don't want him to be able to hit me with arrows if possible.

MATT: Right, no worries. At the end of your turn, he's going to use two of his legendary actions to try and cast a different spell, actually. He begins to, from up there above, lifts his hand up like this. I need everyone but Grog to make a dexterity saving throw, including the treants.

MARISHA: Including me inside the treant?

SAM: I guess I will try to counterspell this one as well.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Also at level five, I don't know if that helps.

MATT: All right. So go ahead and roll, plus six.

SAM: All right. Plus six? 16.

MATT: Nope. Sorry. Close, you were one off. So dexterity saving throws for the treants. Nope. And nope.

LAURA: 17.

LIAM: 29.

MATT: So Vax succeeds.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: Grog, you don't have to worry about it, 'cause you're out of the radius.

MARISHA: 16.

TALIESIN: 14.

SAM: Oh, am I rolling for–

MATT: Yes, you are.

SAM: What is the save?

MATT: This is a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Dexterity saving throw. 14.

MATT: All right. Vax, only you succeed. Suddenly you feel as if there is a sense of weightlessness, or at least you're being drawn at a very intense speed upward in the room. Vax, you manage to reach down and grab one of the roots on the ground and hold yourself there while the rest of you are thrown, including the treants, at a similar velocity as you would plummet off a cliff, but upward. Up into the ceiling and roof, slamming into the roots, crack! And then gravity returns to normal and all of you fall, once again, slamming back down onto the ground.

MARISHA: Am I immune to that as a fire elemental?

MATT: You still take bludgeoning damage as an elemental.

MARISHA: Just resistant to it.

SAM: How high's the roof above the ground?

MATT: It's about 50 feet at the top.

LAURA: So 100… no, that's just two times in a row.

SAM: Two 50 drops.

LAURA: Wow.

MATT: That's a total of 24 points of bludgeoning damage to all of you except for Vax.

MARISHA: I take half damage.

MATT: You take half that, because–

MARISHA: How much did you say it was? 24?

SAM: 24.

MATT: Not you, Grog, you're unaffected by it. Yeah. But the treants also take it.

SAM: Oh! Poor guys.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: No problem, no problem.

MATT: End of Vex's turn. Vax, you're up. You watch as all of your friends and the treants come crashing down from the ceiling, slamming, you hear the groans of various people getting up off of root knots on the ground. Your feet come back to you, and it's your go.

LIAM: So the treants are prone, right?

MATT: In fact, everybody here for the most part is prone, yes.

LIAM: Everybody's prone, and that gives me advantage on the attack as well, doesn't it?

MATT: Technically, yes.

MARISHA: I'm immune to prone.

LIAM: All right, so I'm just gonna whip down and stab into the treant that's at my feet now.

MATT: All righty, go for it.

LIAM: Okay, first attack is a 29.

MATT: That definitely hits.

LIAM: Well, actually, yeah, 29. Second attack is a 29.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third attack is a 17.

MATT: Hits. All three hit.

LIAM: Okay, so the first one…

MATT: Percy, you're up next.

LIAM: Which is with the dagger of venom, I don't know if it'll do anything, but I'm gonna use the poison in it. Two… eight… 28, and the poison DC on that is 15.

MATT: No, it does not succeed, it rolled a one.

LIAM: 11 points of poison damage on top of that.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: Second attack does seven. This is the flametongue dagger, I don't know if that's going to do anything–

MATT: Sorry, how much on the first attack again?

LIAM: And the third attack does–

TRAVIS: Liam, how much was your first attack?

LIAM: I don't remember, now. Uh, I can figure it out…

MATT: Make sure I got it right.

LIAM: It was roughly, it was 20-something. 25.

MATT: Yeah, we're good, we're good. All right, third strike?

LIAM: Third strike got eight.

MATT: Eight, got it.

LIAM: Thanks.

MATT: As it's on the ground, sprawled out, flames still burning off of it, you leap up onto its thigh and come down to some of the open wound that Keyleth's fire elemental's been tearing through, you're just prying into it with your daggers and pulling the bark back, revealing its softer, burning underwood, if you will. You do a sincerely awful amount of damage to it, and it looks like the creature's already in dire straits.

SAM: This is one of the treants?

MATT: One of the treants, yes.

SAM: Oh, okay.

MATT: Does that end your turn?

LIAM: I just quickly look into Keyleth's flaming eyes and say, “Finish it off,” and then I'm going to run double speed along the curve of the wall underneath flying fuck.

MATT: This way?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Other way, I think.

MATT: Oh, this way. The one that's not flaming?

LIAM: Past Keyleth and the one that I just stabbed the shit out of.

LAURA: Oh, the other way, you were going the right way.

MATT: This way.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. You're about there with your movement.

LIAM: I've got double speed.

MATT: All right. Oh yeah, double speed, you'd actually get closer to there if you wanted. All right, that ends your turn. Percy, you're up. Actually, at the end of Percy's turn he's gonna use his last legendary action to go ahead and make an attack with Fenthras. As he sees you running past, Vax, he goes ahead and takes one arrow shot at you as you're running super fast across the floor.

LIAM: Disadvantage.

MATT: No, because, well, no–

LIAM: Turns on–

MATT: – no, you did, at the beginning of your turn it did, you're right. So. Good thing, too, 19 and a one. It goes to fire but you're too quick, and as it releases its spikelike arrow, you hear it go right past you, catching the edge of the cloak and actually going through it, leaving a small hole in the corner, but no impact to you. All right, so now, Percy, it's your turn.

TALIESIN: We're both prone, does that mean that we're in combat, or can I walk away from it and it doesn't–

MATT: You're both prone, you can walk away without it getting an attack of opportunity, you just spend half your movement to get up.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm spending half my movement to get up, and I'm backing up against the wall.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Backing up against the wall. I'm not using Bad News, I'm going to use Retort, I'm going to try and, first thing I'm gonna do is use a bonus action to heal a little bit. Yeah. That's nine plus twelve, so that's 21. Figure that out when it's not my turn. Next thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna start shooting to try and get that bow out of his hands one more time.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: First shot…

MATT: This is with Retort, right?

TALIESIN: Retort, yeah. Same trick, but not nearly as much damage. That's 16 to hit?

MATT: Hits the nearby wood, splinters off one of the vines, sending a shower of broken wood chips.

TALIESIN: Firing again.

LIAM: C'mon, dangerous nerd, do it!

LAURA: (laughs) Dangerous nerd.

TALIESIN: That's another 16.

MATT: Can't quite catch a bead on it. Being a human without dark vision, it's hard to see it in the low glowing light.

MARISHA: I give off a soft glow.

MATT: But at a distance.

TALIESIN: 18 to hit?

MATT: That misses.

(All groan.)

TALIESIN: God damn it. Okay. That's my bloody roll.

MARISHA: That's always a bummer, man. That sucks.

MATT: Ending Percy's turn, that brings us to our next set of lair actions. All right.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

MATT: Suddenly all the vines on the nearby walls on the inside of the tree whip out and begin grabbing anyone nearby. Percy, Scanlan, Keyleth, and Vax, you guys are all of a sudden, the vines try and wrap around you. They pull you back.

MARISHA: Immune to grapple.

MATT: So yeah.

LIAM: Dexterity save?

MATT: The vines try and wrap around you, Keyleth, and burn in the process. You are still pulled right against the wall. I need Vax, Scanlan, and Percy to make a strength saving throw.

SAM: Strength.

LIAM: Strength.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Oh, god. Just straight strength?

TALIESIN: 23.

SAM: 15.

LIAM: Burn a Luck. Ah, 20.

MATT: 20, okay. Vax and Percy, you guys manage to break free of the vines. Scanlan, you are considered grappled, so your speed is zero. The vines are actually holding you against the side. They're not hurting you or anything, but you cannot actually move from your space 'cause you're being held against the wall of the tree. That ends the legendary action. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Can I run immediately underneath Saundor?

MATT: Saundor, yes you can.

TRAVIS: Are there any vines that are hanging from him? There are none?

MATT: There are vines hanging from the ceiling, but he himself just kind of sunk into the tree and then emerged above, he himself does not have any wayward vines that are just hanging.

TRAVIS: Right. Are there any vines that look like they might be thick enough for me to try and climb up if I wanted to get to his height?

MATT: Probably a couple, yeah.

TRAVIS: Could I grab a few of those vines to try and climb up to where he's at?

MATT: Make an athletics check. With disadvantage. And then you have advantage because you're raging, so just a straight roll on that.

TRAVIS: Athletics. 23.

MATT: 23, all right, let me check and see how far you can actually climb at that speed.

SAM: Tense fight, guys. Wouldn't wanna be in it with anyone else.

LIAM: Us against the environment.

SAM: I think that my plan should work.

MATT: I'd say your physical strength and your ability to just kind of one hand over hand, not even pull up, especially with your Titan gauntlets and that type of a roll, you could probably get right up to him, but that's gonna be your action to get up there.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: So you'll only have your bonus action left at that time, but essentially you climb up and get right up to where he is at the top of the tree. As he's up there pulling the bow back, getting ready to, you see another pointed arrow kind of shift out of his arm, you come right up to his face and you're right there holding on with the vines, with the axe hanging over your shoulder with the chain.

TRAVIS: With my bonus action, can I let out the loudest howl I possibly can.

MATT: Yes, you can.

TRAVIS: (howls)

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Calling in the cavalry.

LAURA: Yeah, come on! Please, I hope he can get in here.

MATT: That's your turn?

TRAVIS: That's my turn.

MATT: All right. It is now Saundor's turn.

SAM: Oh boy.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: He's deaf from that howl, he's definitely deaf.

MATT: No, not so much. Saundor takes Fenthras and actually lets go of it to his side, and these vines grab it and hold it in place just wherever he lets it go. As he pulls back, his fingers curl up into these giant, extremely hard petrified root-like clusters, and he just starts whaling on you as you're holding onto that vine. Three strikes against you. The first one is gonna be a 25.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: Second one is a 23.

TRAVIS: Also hits.

MATT: Third one is a 15.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: It hits you, but just not enough to do any damage. So, looking at this, that brings it to, oh no, that's two. 14 points of bludgeoning damage on the first one, halved. And the second one–

LAURA: Oh, it's just the fucking coolest.

MATT: 22 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to 11. I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw to maintain your hold on that vine. As he just bats you around.

TRAVIS: That's a 21.

MATT: 21. It punches you twice, and your grip causes you to slide a foot, but you catch yourself and you're still maintaining yourself. The vine is now swinging from the impact, and you're in the process of this weird momentum where you're passing by a little out of control with your movement up in the air of the inside of this tree.

TRAVIS: Awesome.

MATT: So that's gonna end its action. You now watch as Saundor reaches up and grabs the bow again and shifts into the tree to get away from you. You do get an attack of opportunity, though. As you come around, watching him sink in with your one hand on the axe.

TRAVIS: Oh, that was so close to being a crit. That is a 33.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: 19 isn't a crit for him, right?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: No. So go ahead, I will say the damage is gonna be a 1d10 rather than a 1d12, just for the sake of, you're swinging with one hand.

TRAVIS: That's… wait, no, that's 22 plus one point of necrotic damage, so 23.

MATT: All right, so 23 points of slashing damage as you come around, as the vine is arcing around, whack! You cleave through, catch part of the side of the shoulder and the jaw. Part of this hard bony root exterior actually gets carved off and you see more black ooze spill out from underneath as it shrieks, pulling back into the tree. You watch him vanish, you're still left there.

TRAVIS: Killed him.

LAURA: Good job, Grog.

LIAM: Smacked him into the wall.

TRAVIS: Not so tough, really.

LIAM: Go hide like a potato in the earth. Oh jeez.

MATT: As high up as Saundor can get, right at the edge, actually emerging out of the ceiling portion of the top of it, ten feet higher than he was before, he comes out with Fenthras.

LAURA: Ten feet higher than he was before?

MATT: Before, he was out of the wall, before the ceiling even came up into a cone. He's now coming out of the ceiling in another part.

LAURA: Jeez.

MATT: Now hanging out halfway and ready to go ahead and let loose with a bow, that's gonna end his turn, however.

LIAM: How high off the ground is that apex that he's hanging out of?

MATT: Right now he's 40 feet up.

LIAM: 40 feet, all right.

MATT: Yep. That ends his turn, it is now the treants' go. They both get up, using half their movement. (laughs) Let's see. That one currently is just being harried with the flames on the inside, it takes, does it take any damage on its turn?

MARISHA: It does. Unless he douses himself, he takes another 1d10.

MATT: Go ahead and do 1d10 damage to him.

MARISHA: Six.

TALIESIN: Doubled.

LAURA: Doubled, yeah.

MATT: As it begins to take the damage, it begins to pat out the flames, but as it does, the fire just roars into this inferno, and you hear it give out this creaking, painful (pained groan) as it tumbles forward in a timber fashion, the flames actually burning the life essence out of the treant. It falls to the ground, dead, smoldering.

SAM: Hey, damn!

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: You pop out of his form as the living entity is no longer living and you are but an elemental now. I'm gonna leave him there just for reference, because it is a big thing to get through. But you are now pushed off to the side. That treant is gone. The other one gets up and steps over to Percy.

TALIESIN: I made a friend.

MATT: You did. As you just manage to avoid that, the treant comes up and goes into a double-slam against you.

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: That is gonna be 19.

TALIESIN: That hits.

MATT: And 21.

TALIESIN: That also hits.

MATT: All righty. You take–

TALIESIN: I'm fine.

MATT: 13 points of bludgeoning damage. 20 points of bludgeoning damage on the second hit.

LAURA: (gasps)

TALIESIN: That's mean.

MATT: It's now pushing you up against the side of the tree. You can feel the roots hitting the back of your head, and as you ricochet off the impact, you come into another fist right to the face. You feel the nose break under the impact and possibly a tooth get loose as you spit blood out the side. It was a rough hit on you.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that was rough.

MATT: All right. That ends the treants' turn. Scanlan and Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: You're still–

MATT: You're grappled, and currently prone.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Where is he? Where are you, Scanlan?

SAM: I'm against the close side of the wall.

MATT: You're over there. But because your movement is zero and you're grappled, you cannot get up. So right now you are prone and stuck to a wall.

SAM: Can I pull out a wand, or not even?

MATT: You can pull out a wand, you're just at disadvantage for all attacks right now.

SAM: All attacks. Even spell attacks?

MATT: You have disadvantage on attack rolls, and any attack rolls against you have advantage, yeah. If they're within five feet of you. Otherwise they have disadvantage.

MARISHA: I might be able to try and do something, if I can go first.

SAM: That's attack rolls, Fireballs just happen.

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: Maybe I can burn you away.

SAM: I'll do Fireball on the treant. I'll aim it far away enough so that it won't hit us. Is that a thing? Is that possible?

MATT: It is, it's hard because you're on the ground and he's right there.

SAM: Can I go up?

LAURA: Can you hit Saundor?

SAM: Well, yeah, but I don't know how–

MATT: It's your call. It's a tough circumstance here, because to hit the treant from your perspective, you'd have to hit behind it, but you have no view behind it because you're on the ground.

SAM: Got it. Got it. All right.

MATT: I mean, if you want to try that, I'll give you a roll, and based on how good you roll it may or may not hit an ally.

SAM: Then I will not risk it and I will just Fireball good old Saundor, I guess.

MATT: All righty. How many more–

SAM: I'll use three more charges. I have seven total.

MATT: Okay. Seven total left? Or total?

SAM: Total. So I've used three.

MATT: Well no, you used five last time.

SAM: I thought the first one is just three balls? No? I don't know how this shit works.

MATT: What does it say on the actual item?

SAM: I don't have it anymore. I lost it months and months ago.

(All laugh.)

MATT: It's a good thing it's in the Dungeon Master's Guide. God damn it, Sam. Let me know these things, I can get you the item printout.

LIAM: King of improv. Right here.

MATT: Okay. Wand of Fireballs, has seven charges. You can use an action to expend one or more charges to cast the Fireball spell. For one charge, it's the level three, and for each additional charge it's more than that. So.

SAM: So I used three charges.

MATT: So you used three charges, you have four charges left, yes.

SAM: Okay, so I'm gonna use three on him.

MATT: Oh, three more? All right. Go for it. That'll be another 10d6.

TALIESIN: I don't understand how magic works.

LAURA: I don't know, I don't understand that at all.

MATT: We'll see if he makes his saving throw. It does not make the saving throw, it's gonna use its legendary resistance to automatically make it.

LAURA: Aw.

MARISHA: Fucking dick.

LAURA: Does that half it again?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I have a question.

MATT: What's your question, Grog?

TRAVIS: I forgot about Retaliation. That's a new feat I have.

MATT: Yeah, where someone hits you, you can use your reaction, but you used your reaction to get an attack of opportunity, so you still hit him.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's true.

MATT: But essentially, they don't have to do that now. As long as they hit you, you can use your reaction to just hit them back.

TRAVIS: Hit them back.

MATT: So yeah, as long as you stay within melee–

TRAVIS: As long as I'm within five feet. That count on his two hits against me?

MATT: I mean, you can only do it once, because you only get one reaction.

TRAVIS: One time. Okay.

MATT: And you technically already hit him with that.

TRAVIS: That's true.

MATT: Same thing, so you used your attack of opportunity, so you can do that whenever anybody hits you.

LAURA: See, you're fine.

MATT: You're good, but good to remember.

SAM: Laura, are you like…

LAURA: About to die? Yeah.

TRAVIS: I haven't used it before.

SAM: All right, that was 29. So 14.

MATT: 29. Halve that, 14 points of fire damage.

LAURA: Like one more hit and I'm unconscious.

MATT: As another Fireball bursts into the air, lighting up the room even brighter for an instant. You can see now as the smoke clears, the front of Saundor's form is black and beginning to char with each blast of flame. A lot of the oil has dried off and is now coming off in clumps.

LAURA: That's good.

MATT: Almost like dried mud. All right.

SAM: I will also heal Vex. She's close enough, right? Yeah? Yeah? Ish?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

SAM: With an inspirational quote.

LAURA: (laughing) No.

SAM: Something Percival once said a long, long time ago.

TALIESIN: Oh no. Oh no.

LAURA: I'm ready.

SAM: Life needs things to live. That's it. That's the whole quote.

(All laugh.)

SAM: Earlier tonight. Percival von Fredrickstein von Rollo de Frankenstein de Roll. Credit where credit is due.

LIAM: Put it on a kitten poster.

SAM: Oh, and I'll do it at level three, so that's, sorry, not inspiration, healing, healing, healing.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: That's right, this is a healing spell, all right.

SAM: So that's 3d4 plus six.

MARISHA: Oh man.

SAM: 12.

LAURA: Okay, thank you!

TALIESIN: 12 helps.

MATT: All right, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay. I am going to march over to that, oh man, to that guy.

TALIESIN: Number two?

MARISHA: Number two. Treant number two.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I want to see if I can Tree Stride through him–

MATT: Did you take damage from the fall earlier?

MARISHA: I did.

MATT: Make a concentration check.

SAM: (sings a note)

MARISHA: Even though I have resistance on bludgeoning damage and all that shit?

MATT: Yeah. So just add your constitution modifier.

MARISHA: Oh, my constitution modifier? As a–

MATT: As a fire elemental.

MARISHA: Just my modifier?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Eight.

MATT: Yeah, so Tree Stride has faded. Sorry.

MARISHA: Fuck!

MATT: Concentration spells when you take damage, man.

MARISHA: Well, I still whelm him. That guy in front of me. I still can move into his space.

MATT: Into his space. Go ahead and make your attacks.

MARISHA: That's my fucking opal dice again. Asshole. Oh look, and that was 18.

SAM: You gotta roll it angry.

LAURA: Oh, maybe that's the key.

TALIESIN: Maybe you have to roll it angry.

TRAVIS: You're being so fucking nice.

TALIESIN: Angry die.

LIAM: But she's always angry.

LAURA: Just like “arrgh” every time you roll it.

MATT: Keyleth must embrace her anger to actually make the dice work for her. I like that.

MARISHA: Two slam attacks.

LAURA: See, that's Taliesin's secret, he's always angry.

TALIESIN: Always angry.

MATT: Are you rolling with advantage?

MARISHA: Do I roll with advantage?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: No.

MATT: Sorry, I saw you roll two dice, so I… those are both attacks at once? Got you.

MARISHA: No, I'm rolling my three dice.

SAM: Two slam attacks, right?

MATT: You have two slam attacks. Did you roll to hit on those?

MARISHA: Oh, wait, no, I don't think I did.

MATT: That's what I'm asking.

MARISHA: I forgot that part.

MATT: Do that first.

MARISHA: Oh, man. Two 11s. Which, 17 to hit both times.

SAM: Make a wish.

MATT: Both hit.

MARISHA: Okay, so the first one, um. 15 for the first one.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: All the big ones, they just–

TRAVIS: Love it.

LAURA: They're pretty but–

MARISHA: And another 15 for the second one.

LAURA: Why would you do that?

MATT: And for the first one, it was…

TALIESIN: That don't suck. And then he's on fire now, right?

MARISHA: He's on fire. Oh, and he takes another d10 because I moved into his space.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh, good good good, that's good.

MATT: And he's on fire.

MARISHA: So another four points from me.

SAM: (softly sings along with the background music)

MATT: All righty. The flames burn up into his form, he starts shrieking as the flame starts curling up its body, it does not like being on fire. That end your turn?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All righty. At the end of your turn, Saundor is gonna go ahead and–

SAM: I'm just gonna go ahead and borrow this. Possibly permanently.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

MATT: Is gonna cast another spell.

TRAVIS: Over here, you piece of shit. Nope.

LAURA: Anything?

TRAVIS: I cough weakly.

MATT: The bow's held aloft, he looks down and sees you on the ground, Vex.

LAURA: Ow.

MATT: And just extends his fingers and says, “You had your choice.” Make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Oh, good. 20.

MATT: 20? Success.

(All cheer.)

MATT: So you take half damage.

SAM: Half damage? Wait, what? No damage!

MARISHA: That sounded like a lot of dice.

LAURA: That's a lot of dice.

LIAM: That's a fucking miracle is what that is.

TALIESIN: That sounds like a handful of hate. That was like four dice.

TRAVIS: It's okay, they're all d1s.

MATT: 31 halved… you take 16 points of necrotic damage.

TALIESIN: You're good.

MARISHA: You all right? Still up.

MATT: As the Blight spell takes over–

SAM: Whoa.

MATT: – you feel the vines wrap around you and the life force pulled from your form momentarily. Suddenly they crack and break as you shove them off, the air pulled from your lungs, and you gasp for air, holding onto that last little sliver of life you still have.

MARISHA: Two can play at that game, motherfucker.

TALIESIN: You need healing.

MATT: All righty. Now it's your turn, Vex.

LAURA: Now it's my turn.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Okay. I'm gonna take, can I–

MATT: You're still prone on the ground, by the way.

LAURA: I stand up.

MATT: All right, so that's half your movement.

LAURA: Can I take a greater healing potion?

MATT: You can.

LAURA: As a bonus?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: How much is that?

MATT: Greater healing would be 4d4 plus four.

LAURA: Okay. 11 plus four is 15. Okay.

SAM: Okay, okay.

TRAVIS: It's that hit back.

LAURA: Okay, that's good, that's good. 37, okay. Okay. I guess I will, his Hunter's Mark is still on him, right?

MATT: Actually, you should make a concentration check because of the Blight damage, which I forgot to take as far as the fall damage earlier as well, so make two concentration checks.

LAURA: Cool.

MATT: Yeah, so add your constitution modifier.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yeah.

LAURA: 19 for the first. And a natural one for the second.

MATT: Yeah, no, that's faded, sorry.

LAURA: Okay, cool. Okay, so–

MATT: Actually, Percy, I need you to make a concentration check as well. I need to get better at that.

LAURA: I guess for my– Jesus Christ.

MATT: Two, one for each slam.

TALIESIN: It's a constitution?

MATT: Yeah, add your constitution modifier.

TALIESIN: Ten.

MATT: Yeah, so the Hex has also faded, sorry.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

LAURA: Fuck. I guess I'm gonna Hail of Thorns him.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TRAVIS: Well, tit-for-tat, give him something else.

LAURA: Right?

TALIESIN: Just hurt him, just hurt him.

SAM: Yeah, man.

LAURA: Okay, so that's a regular attack.

MATT: What level are you casting it at?

LAURA: Oh! Right, oh, I can cast it at higher.

MATT: Yes you can.

LAURA: I'm gonna cast it at a level four. Fuck it.

MATT: Go for it! So go ahead and roll the attack.

LAURA: Okay, that is… I roll a d20 and then I add what? My spell attack bonus?

MATT: No, it's just a regular attack, and if it hits– because you cast the spell as a bonus action onto an arrow, release the arrow, and if it hits–

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27 hits. So you do damage for the arrow, plus an additional 4d10 damage, yeah.

LAURA: 4d10.

LIAM: Girl!

LAURA: That's good, that's good, that's good. Oh, that's good, okay. 17 for the actual hit.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: And then an additional 4d10?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Wow. That's awesome. Hopefully these will be good. 20 additional.

MATT: 20 points of damage to him. Nice. As you release the arrow, it sticks into his chest. (chuckles) “You will–” (explosion sound) It just bursts in his chest, these thorns go spraying into him and the nearby area, just like a pipe bomb went off in his chest, and he's just like (gasping roar of pain). All right. And do you want to move or stay where you are?

LAURA: I'm gonna stay where I am.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: But I'm gonna hold onto that tree.

MATT: Okay, you grapple onto that tree. End of your turn, he's gonna use his last legendary action to make one attack with Fenthras back at you out of anger. That is a 25.

LAURA: That hits me.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I'm gonna actually, wait, can I Cutting Words that?

MATT: Sure. What are you gonna do? What do you say?

MARISHA: C'mon, c'mon.

SAM: I'm gonna insult him. I'm gonna call him a (clears throat) “Oi, you fobbing elf-skinned flapdragon! You paunchy ill-breeding lewdster! You unmuscled reeling ripe mumblenews!” Shakespeare insult generator.

MATT: That is fantastic.

TRAVIS: That's unbelievable.

MATT: That's really quite good.

LAURA: He's really old, so that really means a lot to him.

MATT: Unfortunately, they fall on deaf ears, he's beyond 60 feet from you, and doesn't hear the insult.

SAM: What? I thought the roof was only like 45 feet up, 50 feet up!

MATT: But you're over there.

SAM: I yelled it really loud.

TALIESIN: Did you use the cone? No, you can't use the– oh, you could use the cone.

MATT: Just on the cusp. At an angle, let me see here, 'cause he's about 55 feet from you and then is 40 feet up, yeah, at the angle, he's just out of range.

MARISHA: Aw, Pythagoras's theorem, man, c'mon, that's right at 60, right?

MATT: Just misses him.

MARISHA: A-squared plus b-squared equals c-squared? C'mon.

SAM: No problem.

MATT: Yeah, he's just out of the range. You shout it, it echoes, it was a great insult, but he's too focused–

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: – and looses the arrow. It manages to catch you for…

TALIESIN: Oh, don't make that face.

MATT: 15 points of piercing damage and one point of lightning damage.

LAURA: Okay. Okay.

MARISHA: Still up?

LAURA: I'm good.

TALIESIN: Ish.

LAURA: Ish.

TALIESIN: Esque.

MATT: All right. Up at the top of the round. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I think from where I'm standing I'm close enough to see that Keyleth is absolutely mauling the tree, she's right on top of it, right?

MATT: That appears to be the case, yes.

LIAM: With double speed I can get there, yeah?

MATT: Yes, you can.

LIAM: All right, so I'm gonna flit across the floor, come up right behind Keyleth, shoot right around the side of her and stab up and in, one-two-three.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: First attack is a 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

LIAM: Second attack is a 29.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: And the third attack is a 26.

MATT: Hits, all three hit.

LIAM: Sneak attack on the first. Two plus six is eight… 30.

MATT: 30 points.

LIAM: For the first attack, second attack does seven, and the third attack does ten.

MATT: Ten, all righty.

LIAM: Ten and seven.

MATT: You rush up from the side, seeing the inferno engulfing the creature as it's shrieking in pain, you rush up and just start stabbing it repeatedly, throwing your dagger up into the various exposed parts of its bark form. You can see it's actually breaking apart from the inside. It's still holding itself together, but it's looking pretty rough.

LIAM: Am I burning at all, as I just came up next to flamey here?

MATT: What's the radius, Keyleth?

LAURA: On fire damage.

MATT: What's the radius to take damage? When they come within a certain area of you?

MARISHA: No, it's when I'm–

TALIESIN: Sharing space.

MARISHA: Five feet, maybe? Wait. I think it's when I'm sharing space.

LIAM: Because that came up in the past, being around her.

MATT: No, you're right, it doesn't affect, you're fine, you're fine.

LIAM: Woo!

MATT: You're good. You can feel the heat, it's emanating from it, definitely. All right. That end your turn, Vax?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I just watch this. I put my gun down, pull out my sword, and just start hacking at the tree.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: What happened?

TALIESIN: That's 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: And 27.

MATT: Hits. All three hit.

(A dice clings loudly against a glass.)

TALIESIN: That's a thing that happens now. Okay, and so that's… (Travis elbows the set, which makes a loud thump noise)

TRAVIS: Jesus. Thunder strikes outside the tree.

LIAM: What was that?

LAURA: That was Travis hitting the side of the room.

TRAVIS: I'm too big for this world.

TALIESIN: 35 points of slashing damage.

MATT: On the first hit? Rolled together?

TALIESIN: All three together.

MATT: I was like, holy shit.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I just went thump-thump-thump.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: You're a greater barbarian than I am.

MATT: As it's on fire and shrieking, you pull the sword out and, seeing the wounds that Vax already left open, you leap up off of one knee, leap up, spin it around, and jam it into the center where you see the bark is actually splitting, and with that, you look down at Keyleth, and together, she forces outward as you dig down with the blade. The treant actually splits up the middle and then just falls to two sides and begins to burn from the inside.

SAM: It's looking pretty rough.

(All laugh.)

MARISHA: Is he dead? He's dead.

LAURA: That's good, that's good.

MATT: He is dead and on the ground there, just burning.

SAM: Loot the body. Might get some acorns.

LAURA: So much lumber.

MARISHA: Let's make s'mores after this!

MATT: Percy, do you want to move or do you stay where you are?

TALIESIN: I'm going to move, I'm going to charge north, just to split the group up a bit.

MATT: Over here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, actually if I can hug the edge a little closer–

MATT: Like there, or around this way, you mean?

TALIESIN: Around that way, and then ten feet away from the wall.

MATT: Ten feet away.

TALIESIN: And then, bonus action to put my mask on in case anything more gassy happens.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And then I've got a grit left, so fuck it, I'm gonna– oh no, because I can't switch weapons fast enough. Never mind. I'm gonna call it.

LIAM: I have a question, and I could be wrong–

MATT: Yes?

LIAM: I thought Percy gave me that mask.

TALIESIN: I took it back from you last game.

MATT: He did.

LIAM: Oh right, I forgot.

TALIESIN: 'Cause you weren't there.

MATT: You weren't there and he was walking through the swamp, yeah.

LIAM: That is true.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you can have it back if you want, I just took it for the swamp.

LIAM: Nah, it looks good on you.

MATT: It's now count 20.

LAURA: Any sign of umber-werewolfy–

TRAVIS: Ukurat.

LAURA: Ukurat?

MATT: So. First you watch as a low mist begins to slowly filter into the room. Everyone in this radius here, it's gonna be Keyleth, Vax, Percy, and Vex, I need you all to make a wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Oh.

MARISHA: Wisdom.

MATT: Yes, as the fog fills the–

LAURA: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: 19.

SAM: Wow.

LIAM: Best wisdom roll of my life.

SAM: What'd you get, Liam?

LIAM: 21, which was huge for me.

MATT: 21.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MARISHA: 18 plus 11, so 29.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: Jesus Christ.

TRAVIS: It's just on that smog thing.

MATT: You feel like the fog as it fills your senses begins to cloud your mind and your vision begins to blur, but then you shake it from your mind and focus in and it has no effect on you.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Lot of fucking help that did. At which point, the area that it closed before, where you guys entered, you hear this loud creaking sound and the breaking of wood and bark.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MATT: Suddenly you watch as it's forced open as these two feral claws (growls).

(All cheer.)

MATT: And Ukurat darts inside from the entrance. Looks around, looks up. “Where's my quarry?”

LAURA: Up, up, up!

MATT: Looks up and sees Saundor. “So be it." And begins jumping onto the wall and climbing and running up the side of the actual–

TALIESIN: Parkour.

MATT: Parkour, indeed.

SAM: You could cut me out first! Okay, just go, it's okay.

MATT: Gets up and runs, and he only manages to get just up to where we'll say where Saundor is there in his turn.

LAURA: Look at how big they both are.

MATT: But he's now right up in the face of Saundor. Saundor's like, (grunts).

SAM: Sic 'em.

MATT: All right, that ends his turn, 20, Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I've been so taken out of this fight, it's driving me crazy. I'm hanging from vines, I see Wolfman come up, I'm not gonna be left out of this. Can I try and Tarzan my way over into the fray?

All: Yes!

MATT: Yes. This will be the majority of your movement and your action to do so.

TRAVIS: Just get me there, baby.

MATT: All right. So you, go ahead and make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Okay. With advantage.

MATT: With advantage. At disadvantage because of your skill check, so just regular attack.

LAURA: No.

MATT: What'd you roll?

TRAVIS: A one.

TALIESIN: Watch out for that tree.

MATT: Getting your momentum, you pull back and your feet catch the edge, and you push off, and you swing out, and as you reach for the next vine (snapping sound).

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LAURA: Ohh. Boo.

MATT: You plummet to the ground. That puts you, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage and fall prone.

TRAVIS: Okay. And prone. That's probably more insulting.

LIAM: Are you halfway done yet, Groggy?

TRAVIS: Because it fails, does that still take up all my action? All my whole thing?

MATT: I mean, you still have your bonus action.

TRAVIS: To get up?

MATT: No, half your movement, but yeah, you won't be able to this turn, so.

TRAVIS: I'll cry a little.

LAURA: Do you have any other bonus, anything you can do for a bonus action?

TRAVIS: Do I keep my rage, because I fell and took damage?

MATT: Uh. Let me double-check the specifics for the rage here, if it's, just to make sure.

TRAVIS: I think it has to be an attack.

MARISHA: I mean, he's gotta be pretty angry.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'd be angry.

MARISHA: I'd be angry.

LAURA: Yeah, I'd think that would piss him the fuck off.

MATT: No, you took damage, so it maintains.

(All cheer.)

MATT: You're really angry now, you're like "Fuck this!”

TRAVIS: I'm good.

MATT: All right. So. That ends Grog's turn. It is now Saundor's turn. Saundor, who is looking at this sudden large werewolf entity that shows up out of nowhere knows he has to get away from this, and is gonna go ahead and attempt to begin by vine-walking into the, well he heals a little bit first, sorry. And then he's gonna go ahead and vine-walk into the wall. Ukurat does get an attack of opportunity on him. That does hit, a 27. So he takes 15 points of slashing damage. And vanishes back into the wall and emerges on this side here.

MARISHA: Exactly where Grog was? That's cool.

MATT: Over here.

LAURA: So close to where Grog was. Damn it.

MATT: From there, he's gonna go ahead and make three attacks with Fenthras. First one's gonna be at you, Vex.

SAM: My God, better miss.

MATT: That is a 20.

LAURA: 20 is my armor class.

MATT: Aw. You suffer 15 points of piercing damage and four points of thunder damage, or, uh, lightning damage.

LAURA: 19?

MATT: 19.

LAURA: Cool.

SAM: You're still alive!

LAURA: I'm still alive.

SAM: Wow. That's impressive.

MATT: Shhnk. The first arrow hits you and you take the damage and lean against the tree, and you're still standing. He goes, (angry roar), pulls back and takes another shot.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

LAURA: Can I shout out, “I was wrong! Uh… you're so dreamy!”

MATT: Same exact roll, 20, hits you again.

SAM: Damn it.

MATT: Natural nine on that one. This one is going to be… that is eight plus three, eight points of piercing damage plus three points of lightning, so.

MARISHA: She's down.

MATT: With that, Vex falls unconscious onto the ground. With his third and final shot of the round, he's gonna look down at, I'm gonna say at Percy, who's right below. Take a shot at Percy. Natural 20.

MARISHA: What? What?

TRAVIS: Wow.

MATT: It works against you, sometimes.

TALIESIN: Bastard.

MARISHA: Fucker's having a good round.

MATT: 23 points of piercing damage and four points of lightning.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna do a missile snare.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Yes!

TALIESIN: 23 points of piercing damage?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: That's gonna be 13 points of piercing damage.

MATT: Okay, plus four lightning, so 17.

TALIESIN: And can I use that four, I'm gonna take that four lightning, can that hit the glove?

MATT: We can say you bring up the glove and it does–

TALIESIN: I mean, like, hitting, so–

MATT: Yeah, it takes the damage, but you kind of bring it up instinctually and it does seem to rev some charge to it.

TALIESIN: All right, so that's rolling now, that's in play.

MATT: There you go.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: All right. That ends his turn. The treants are gone. Let's see. That's gonna bring us to Scanlan and Keyleth.

SAM: You wanna do–

MARISHA: I don't know if I can be grappled. We can Dimension Door, though, I can try and take you–

SAM: Nah, I can't do that to you.

MARISHA: I can try coming to get you undone.

SAM: I can't Dimension Door you.

MARISHA: No, I mean, I mean burn you from the vines.

SAM: Oh.

MARISHA: Like get you ungrappled. I don't know if, so, question. Could Bigby's Hand toss a fire elemental's ass?

MATT: Yeah, I mean, you have some sort of physicality to you, it's just somewhat fluid in its structure.

MARISHA: So it's like a magical hand meets magical fire elemental could kinda work?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Like a Molotov cocktail.

MARISHA: All right. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go over to Scanlan and I'm gonna burn the vines around him that are holding him in.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Is that your action, though?

MATT: That would be your action, yeah.

MARISHA: That's my action?

SAM: Don't do that, then. You need to, no, you need to attack–

LAURA: Yeah, don't use your action to–

SAM: Fuck that. I'm fine.

MATT: So as you run up to Scanlan, he's telling you this. What are you doing?

SAM: Leave me, I'm fine, this is cozy.

MARISHA: I go, “Okay.” And I hold my action until I wait for Scanlan. I wait for Scanlan.

MATT: Okay, so you move over there and you hold your action waiting for Scanlan to…

MARISHA: To–

SAM: To throw you.

MARISHA: To throw me.

MATT: Okay. All right. Scanlan.

SAM: I will heal Vex with my bonus action first, right, she's still within range, yes?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: (singing) I'm… I don't know. I'm giving you everything, all that health will bring, this is true.

TRAVIS: Fucking Spice Girls.

LAURA: Is that Spice Girls?

SAM: (singing) And all I want from you is a promise you will kiss me forever.

MARISHA: It was girl power that healed you.

LAURA: Girl power healed me. I feel it.

MARISHA: I'm feeling it, yeah. Spice magic.

SAM: (singing) I'm - I'm! - giving you everything, all that health I bring, yeah– All right, so that's at level one.

MATT: So 1d4 plus six.

SAM: Eight.

LAURA: Awesome.

MATT: So you heal eight. You come to consciousness again on the ground, face-down, you can see the sludge sort of filling in your nostrils–

LAURA: (gasps) Spice Girls?

MARISHA: This is my jam.

SAM: And then I will cast Bigby's Hand.

MATT: All righty. Next to Keyleth.

SAM: Next to Keyleth, and cup her gently.

MARISHA: I turn into a fireball myself.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And just sort of cup and fling.

TRAVIS: Cup that ball.

MARISHA: Very gently.

TALIESIN: As you've cupped so many before.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Okay. Roll a d20 plus eight.

SAM: What is that for?

MATT: That is the strength of Bigby's Hand throwing the elemental.

TALIESIN: (singing) I believe in you, you can do the thing.

SAM: 24.

MATT: 24. You lob the elemental in a wide arc. It makes it most of the way, and then falls past and lands on the ground there. You are by him. Not quite a hit on that one, unfortunately.

MARISHA: God damn it!

MATT: But you do take five points of bludgeoning damage from the fall.

LAURA: Ooh, nice.

MATT: A 25 or higher would have got to him. He's a long ways away!

MARISHA: Five points halved, or was that–

MATT: That's halved.

SAM: Hey, you've still got your attack.

MARISHA: Did I?

TRAVIS: Yeah, you've been thrown.

MATT: You held your action, so you can still use your action to do something if you can.

TRAVIS: Can you?

MARISHA: Can I–

SAM: Just throw a fireball?

MARISHA: I can't do that.

SAM: Aren't you Johnny Storm?

MARISHA: I gotta be there.

MATT: Yeah, it's a melee thing.

MARISHA: Do I still have any movement?

MATT: No, just your action. To get through, I'd say… what's your speed as an elemental?

MARISHA: 50.

MATT: 50? It took you 25 to get there, you still have 25 feet, I would say.

MARISHA: Can I start climbing 25 feet up the wall?

MATT: Make an athletics check.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Using the strength of the fire elemental. Add your strength modifier.

MARISHA: Not good.

MATT: What'd you roll?

MARISHA: Five.

MATT: Five? You start climbing up, you get maybe five feet up the wall, but already the impact of the fall and most of your round exhausted you for this one pass.

MARISHA: Okay, well then I'm gonna take the rest of my action, I'm just going to angrily slam into the tree, and see if I can catch the tree up under him on fire.

MATT: Okay, cool. Ending your turn, Keyleth. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm up?

MATT: Yeah, you're conscious, you're on the ground.

SAM: Run away.

LAURA: Uh, oh right, you're on the ground. Can I, ah, fuck. Okay.

MATT: Actually, hold on. Sorry, I'm gonna be a dick here.

TALIESIN: Really?

MATT: He's getting his legendary actions back at the end of Keyleth's turn, watching Scanlan heal you, he's gonna use another one of his legendary actions to take an attack on you as you come to consciousness on the ground.

LAURA: You're an asshole, Saundor.

MATT: He does attack at disadvantage, though, because you are prone. That puts him at a 16.

LAURA: Yay!

(Loud computer noise in the background.)

MATT: He fires an arrow, but it hits the ground inches from your face. You see the spike impact and then turn to dust.

LAURA: Youuu.

MATT: All right, so take your turn.

LAURA: Fuck. I'm gonna… it's useless, I can't do anything.

SAM: Heal yourself.

LAURA: I know, but my heal is an action, and then I can't attack.

SAM: Do you have any more potions?

LAURA: Um. I've got, oh, I've got a superior healing potion, that's better than a greater, right?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. I'll use that.

SAM: Is that like a venti?

MATT: Yeah, that is 8d4 plus eight.

SAM: Whoa!

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: That is one of the pricy healing potions.

LAURA: Oh, well, okay.

TALIESIN: Burn it!

LAURA: Ten…

MARISHA: That would've been so cool had it worked.

TALIESIN: I know. Had it worked.

LAURA: 20 plus eight… 28.

MATT: 28 you heal, yeah.

SAM: That's the last time I listen to you.

TALIESIN: It was a good plan.

LAURA: Okay, so I'm back at 36. Okay. I'm gonna run and duck behind Grog.

MATT: Well, you get up, which is half your movement, so you have five, 15 more feet, so you can move three squares.

LAURA: Can I get to Grog?

MATT: No. You can get there, is the closest you can get.

LAURA: All right, I'll go to there and then I will, I'm gonna Hail of Thorns him again.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh wait, is that–

MATT: No, your Hail of Thorns is a bonus action, and you already used your heal spell, so no.

LAURA: A bonus action, okay. Then I'm gonna, so I've got two attacks on him.

MATT: Yeah, you do.

LAURA: I'm gonna hit him with two attacks.

MATT: Go for it, roll for the attacks.

LAURA: I get another flaming bowstring, I've got one more flaming bowstring.

MATT: Vax, you're up next, by the way. Go for it.

SAM: Someday Travis will attack again.

MATT: The first one is the flaming bowstring.

TRAVIS: Will he?

SAM: It's been like eight weeks.

MATT: 17. The flaming shot unfortunately goes wide, slams into the wall next to him and the flame curls up.

LAURA: Okay, so 23 on the second hit.

MATT: Second hit does hit, so roll damage.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15 points of damage? All righty.

LAURA: And then I'm gonna duck behind the tree as much as I can.

MATT: Well, that was your full movement was to get there, so.

LAURA: Can I not use my full movement to get–

MATT: To get behind the tree? Hmm, you wouldn't really have much of a shot at him. I guess he–

LAURA: Could I have shot him before I moved?

MATT: You would've been there, suuuure. I normally don't let that retroactively happen.

LAURA: Okay okay okay.

MATT: I'm gonna say you're halfway through. You're sort of there.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. So. That brings us to Vax. You're up.

LIAM: Vex just healed herself, right?

MATT: She did, yes.

LIAM: All right. All right. And is he within 60 feet of me?

MATT: Actually, uh, he is, but at the end of Vex's turn he's going to take a second shot.

LAURA: What? What? Why?

MATT: No, he's gonna use his other two legendary actions to cast another spell.

LAURA: He just has so much.

TALIESIN: Asshole!

MATT: Angry that she gets up and runs off to the side, he says, “You stay DOWN.” I need you to make another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Jeez Louise, come on, man! Saving throw?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19? What's your constitution modifier?

LAURA: Zero, but I have a plus two on all saving throws with my ring.

MATT: That's true. Nice. All righty. That is…

TALIESIN: God damn it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, when it's like, when he's playing fucking Applejacks back there.

MARISHA: I know.

LAURA: Is this another Blight, did he cast Blight again? Motherfuck.

MATT: 41 points of necrotic damage, halved to 20, you take 20.

LAURA: Oh, god.

SAM: You out again?

MARISHA: You're down again, aren't you?

LAURA: No, it was halved to 20, so I'm 16.

SAM: Hey!

MATT: But a second Blight is used.

MARISHA: Blight's nasty.

TALIESIN: Blight's nasty.

MATT: All right. Vax, now it's your turn.

LIAM: He's within 60 feet of me?

MATT: He would be, yes.

LIAM: All right. And is there anyone around me? I just can't see too well from here.

MATT: There's people around you, but there's nobody next to him.

LIAM: Next to him, no, I know. Fuck it. I'm gonna burn a bonus action and shoot out the wings and I'm gonna fly into his face and stab into each side of his neck.

TALIESIN: Fuck yeah!

MATT: All righty. All of a sudden, the giant raven wings streak out from each side of you and the air in the entirety of the room begins to swirl around you, your hair gets tossed, as the giant wings begin to push him into the air. The raven-like dagger-wielding champion of the Raven Queen leaps up and finds himself face-to-face with Saundor, blades out. Go ahead and make your attacks.

MARISHA: The breeze from his wings kinda stokes my fire elemental form a little bit and I'm kind of into it.

MATT: There you go. Yeah you are! Vax, go for it.

LIAM: 28 on the first.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: 29 on the second.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: As I stab into both sides of his neck, I say, If you want to get to my sister you gotta get through me. Stab-stab. First one is ten, second one is eight.

MATT: All righty. As you jam both blades into the side, the flames kind of curling up from the hit of one, the poison dagger jammed into the other, the head descends and the mouth opens and from the inside you can see the semblance of the human-like face you saw before come peek through, leaning out, almost like the queen alien's secondary mouth. It kind of leans into your face, and the grin curls up in this evil smile. “I'll take both of you at this rate. There's only so many betrayals one can survive.” It clinks back into the head, the jaw closes. That finishes your turn, Vax.

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: Percy, you're up. At the end of Vax's turn… no, he can't, he already used his spell, you're right.

TALIESIN: All right. Okay.

MARISHA: This guy had a rough breakup or something, man.

TALIESIN: No breakup is that rough. I'm going to, I'm switching back to Bad News, and I'm going to reload and I'm going to try and, got that last grit, I'm gonna just try and get him to drop the bow.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Come on, Percy.

TALIESIN: Part one. That'll do. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

TALIESIN: He has to make a strength saving throw.

MATT: Okay, that is a two, he's gonna use a legendary resistance, the second one, to make the save.

TALIESIN: Made the save using a legendary resistance.

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's fine, don't care.

MARISHA: (laughing) Don't care.

TALIESIN: That'll do. That's 20 points of damage.

MATT: All right.

SAM: He has to make a strength check?

TALIESIN: He has to make a, it's strength saving throw.

SAM: Saving.

TALIESIN: Yeah, he makes it.

SAM: Because I had a Cutting Words a while back.

MATT: Right, but it means he has disadvantage, but even if he fails, which he would've in that case, he still gets to make it automatically as part of the legendary resistance.

SAM: So that's negated my Cutting Words as well.

MATT: For a legendary resistance, it does. Which is why if you can burn through those early, then they're a little more vulnerable.

TALIESIN: And just because nothing else seems to be happening, I'm just gonna burn my Action Surge and just keep plowing into him for two more shots.

MATT: All right. How much damage did the first one do?

TALIESIN: That did 20 points of damage.

MATT: Nice! (gunshot sound)

TALIESIN: Taking another shot, that's 29.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: That's 28 points of damage.

MATT: Three hits. Go ahead and roll the other two damage, now.

TALIESIN: Hm?

MATT: So you hit with all three, so.

TALIESIN: No, I've been doing damage.

MATT: Oh, those were the damage.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Oh, I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: Sorry. That's 20 points of damage and 28 points of damage. 22… wait. 20 points of damage on the first attack.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Attack I just did was 28 points of damage.

MATT: 28, sorry, all right, and then the third one.

TALIESIN: And then the third one.

MATT: Roll to hit.

TALIESIN: That hits, that's a 31.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Do you crit on a 19?

TALIESIN: I do not crit on a 19.

MARISHA: Fuck. That's a good roll, though, that's a good roll.

TALIESIN: 18 points of damage.

MATT: Nice. So (three gunshots) you can see now he's starting to sag as he hangs outside of the wall with the daggers still held in him by Vax, both impacts, each blast hitting the side of his torso, you can see now the wooden-armored exterior is shattered and there's just this writhing mass of dark veiny vines holding his torso together. He's looking pretty rough.

TALIESIN: Lay into him! And I'm gonna run and try and get some cover on the ent. In the dead-ent. Dead-ent dead-ent.

SAM: (to the tune of the Pink Panther theme) Dead-ent dead-ent–

SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Dead-ent dead-ent dead-ent dead-ent–

MATT: Grog, you're up.

LIAM: (slightly delayed) Dead-ent.

TRAVIS: All right, can I stand up?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: And I casually walk over so that I'm standing between Vex and Saundor, right in front of Vex, like a human shield.

MATT: Right there? Yes.

TRAVIS: And I look up and I'm like, “Jesus, this is fucking stupid. I've broken some hearts in my time, but you, stupid Romeo, are taking it way too far. Guess what? NOBODY CARES.” And I take the javelin of lightning and I throw it at him.

(All cheer.)

MATT: Slick. So let's go ahead and roll for that.

SAM: Javelin of lightning.

TALIESIN: Very very fair.

MATT: Let me see what you have to do for that. Do you have the item rules there?

TRAVIS: I do have it here.

MATT: What does it say?

TRAVIS: If it hits, they have to make a DC 17 dexterity saving throw. If it hits, it's a 4d6 lightning. Half if they make it.

MATT: Right. So go ahead and roll to hit, what was the hit?

TALIESIN: And he burned a legendary save.

TRAVIS: It was 24.

SAM: He burned two of them.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: It hits, go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 4d6.

SAM: He didn't use any sort of legendary thing, Matt?

MATT: Well, when you hurl it, you don't roll to hit with it. Five feet wide, it extends out from you to the target within 120 feet. Each creature in the line, excluding you and the target, must make a DC… no, you're right, I read too far ahead. Yeah, you're good, so 4d6 lightning damage.

TRAVIS: Nice. Six, eight, seven… 12.

MATT: 12 points of lightning damage?

TRAVIS: 12 points of lightning damage.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(All scream and cheer.)

LAURA: Fuck, yeah!

MARISHA: Yeah, Grog!

SAM: You got the kill?

MARISHA: Yes!

SAM: You didn't do anything!

TALIESIN: Walking around like an idiot the entire game.

TRAVIS: Chasing him around the room.

SAM: You fell five times!

MARISHA: You basically killed him with bro-shame.

LIAM: And that cheeky line about romance.

TRAVIS: I know, fuck! I throw it and hopefully get it to go right in his mouth as he's trying to have a comeback. And I'll just look bewildered that it worked.

MATT: As you just shove it upward–

LIAM: Can he use his bonus action to just shove his sunglasses up at the end?

MATT: As you chuck the javelin, you see it burst forth with lightning-based propulsion magic. It sinks into the center of the jaw, which the eyes go wide, the jaw hangs open loosely, and you can see the secondary face of Saundor inside, the javelin pierced through his jaw now, his eyes wide, and you see the hand reach up to try and grab the back of the vines. As he does, the javelin bursts into a shockwave of electrical energy, scattering his body into a hundred pieces across the wall, falling off. Vax, you are pushed back from the force of it, tumbling, manage to catch yourself in the air with your wings, still flying, as the rest of Saundor's body just comes clattering to the ground in chunks.

LAURA: I jump up on Grog's back. What the fuck!

TRAVIS: I honestly did not expect that to happen.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna walk up and grab–

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: The javelin clatters to the ground.

TALIESIN: Grab the bow, real quick.

TRAVIS: I go get the javelin, because it's obviously worth keeping.

SAM: I instinctually throw Keyleth in the air.

MARISHA: And I go for it, too.

MATT: You manage to dig yourself out of your vines and rush up to Keyleth.

SAM: No, no, with the hand.

MATT: With the hand, oh yeah. The hand darts over, grabs the fire elemental, and just kinda (sound of throwing and catching).

MARISHA: Heeheehee.

TRAVIS: Can I run back to Vex and offer her a healing potion, unless someone can do better?

LAURA: Oh, I can cast Cure Wounds on myself.

TRAVIS: Are you all right?

LAURA: I'm fine. Thank you. I was really regretting that, attacking him, I thought maybe I should've just said yes and dealt with it.

TRAVIS: What, become a corpse bride?

TALIESIN: He was terrible.

LAURA: I don't know, I just felt terrible.

TALIESIN: He was terrible.

MARISHA: I drop my fire elemental form.

TALIESIN: That was a terrible person.

TRAVIS: It's all right.

LAURA: Thanks, Grog.

TRAVIS: You did… you did good.

LAURA: Thanks, so did you.

MATT: A loud impact sounds as Ukurat lands.

SAM: Oh, thank god.

LAURA: I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself before anything else happens. As high of a level as I can, which is level three.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Does my Song of Rest need to be during a short rest?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: We have a mansion that's within walking distance. And if we have to, we will run.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna hand her the potion anyway, as she's standing there, so.

MATT: Okay. As she finishes healing herself, Ukurat walks up towards the center of the room where you're standing next to her, and just kind of pushes the currently now-smoldering body of the treant to the side. “A little late on the call to arms. I'm just sad I missed most of the fight.”

TRAVIS: Didn't want you to miss out on all the action.

MATT: Got a couple licks in. Well. I guess this calls us even.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Thanks for coming.

LAURA: Thank you for joining us.

MATT: Be safe.

LAURA: You too.

TRAVIS: Wait. What will you do now?

MATT: “My business is my own. As is yours. I'll find my people. We'll find a home for us. Now. You've done your task. Leave before you plummet into any further unknown dangers, foolish people.” He turns around and leaps towards the opening that he carved and crawls out of it and just disappears.

MARISHA: You know, from him I think that was a compliment.

TALIESIN: It kind of was.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: He's so awesome.

TALIESIN: It is sort of sad that we didn't catch any theater.

LAURA: Well, there's still time.

TRAVIS: Can I try and jump through the hole like he did?

MATT: You reach over and leap through the hole. Catch it. Yeah, it's still open, it's like pulled open and actually–

TRAVIS: I don't make it all the way in, though, do I? It's up there.

MATT: Oh, no, the hole that he pulled in was the entrance you walked in to the base.

TRAVIS: Oh, good.

MATT: So you get there.

TRAVIS: Little colonoscopy?

MATT: Little bit, yeah.

MARISHA: I go up to Vex and I just grab her arm and I say, Don't let any man– or anyone for that matter– make you feel like you need them to be great. Because you don't. I'm not good with words.

LAURA: That was wonderful, Keyleth. Thank you.

MARISHA: But he was an asshole.

LAURA: No, yeah, he was really… right?

MARISHA: And I don't want you ever dating an asshole.

LAURA: (laughs) Thank you.

MARISHA: He wasn't good enough, he was mean.

TALIESIN: I'm going to saunter over.

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: (in an exaggeratedly evil voice) We're a lot alike, you and I. Bleaaah. (normal voice) What an asshole, Jesus.

MARISHA: (in an exaggeratedly evil voice) You drug your friends to their doom.

TRAVIS: Can I walk over to Vax while they're making a show?

MARISHA: We keep making a show.

TRAVIS: Quietly, I say, What was he talking about with the bloody dagger?

LIAM: Sorry, Feywild interference, what was that?

TRAVIS: What was he saying about the bloody dagger when he was talking to Vex?

LIAM: You know, it's interesting, I understand exactly zero percent of what the DM was saying while he was in-character as that particular character due to the nature of Skype and microphones.

TRAVIS: Yes.

LIAM: So I was faking understanding the whole time, and then picked it up in retrospect listening to Laura's responses. I missed it.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Who's this Laura you're speaking of?

(All laugh.)

LIAM: I don't know. I don't know anything.

LAURA: That's okay. It's fine that you didn't hear. He said nothing about a bloody dagger. Nothing at all.

LIAM: We should find that dagger. No question.

TALIESIN: Is there anything other than the bow worth looting on this terrible person, since I'm rummaging through his…

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Right.

TRAVIS: Well, let's not downplay the bow.

TALIESIN: I've got it already.

SAM: Hey, guys, I'm still trapped in the vines!

LAURA: Oh, Scanlan! I run over and I start pulling the vines off of him. Holy shit, Scanlan, I'm so sorry. Thank you for healing me.

SAM: Certainly.

TRAVIS: Are you in fine form? Should I hit you until you–

SAM: No, don't hit me. I'll sing more Spice Girls.

LAURA: That was really lovely.

SAM: Thank you.

LAURA: Spice Girls is so empowering.

MATT: So, you pull the vines from him, as you inspect around, too, you notice there's not much really of worth here. This home is mostly natural in its base. However, the slow trickle of the black oil-like substance has ceased. Most of it's grown thicker and stopped, and it just feels like the whole place went into this sudden stasis, like the slow crawl of everything nearby, the vines, everything stopped.

LAURA: We didn't kill the whole forest, did we?

SAM: Little bit.

MARISHA: I drop to my knees and do a Commune with Nature.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Do I gather a different energy from the surrounding plants?

MATT: You still feel the ever-present bloom of life and life-forces surrounding you entirely. You do feel a wave of relaxation. There is a sort of general radial sigh that is slowly trickling from the center of the tree.

MARISHA: Do I still sense the presence of Saundor?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: Do, last question. Does the tree seem happier? What is the tree gonna do from here on out? What are you gonna do, tree?

MATT: Exist.

MARISHA: Exist, cool. Everything seems great.

TRAVIS: Cool. Since I got the killing blow, can I chop this tree down now?

LAURA: This whole tree?

MARISHA: This big one?

SAM: No, it's just a tree now, I think it's okay.

MARISHA: Yeah, you know, the tree just told me that it actually feels much better, so.

TRAVIS: I get to chop a tree at some point.

LAURA: You see those trees over there?

TRAVIS: They're already down.

LAURA: No no no, I see it twitching, Grog, it's definitely twitching.

LIAM: We're going to Vasselheim soon, you can cut down a lot of trees there. It's cold there, they could use the firewood. Soon.

MARISHA: Trees that won't take it personal.

TALIESIN: I know that's not nearly as much fun, but it is available.

TRAVIS: This is true.

LIAM: What are we talking about? Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: What?

LIAM: I'm fucking curious. Pull that bowstring.

LAURA: Well, I don't have it.

TALIESIN: Toss it.

SAM: Are you sure Vex'ahlia should get it?

TALIESIN: I know, I was thinking that.

LAURA: Do you need it, Scanlan, do you think–

SAM: I think maybe I should get it, I fought bravely in the last fight.

LAURA: You did. Maybe Grog should get it, I mean, he did get the killing blow.

LIAM: Scanlan, I think you would make a very good arrow for it.

(All laugh.)

TRAVIS: I could get down with that.

MATT: You hold it in your hand and look at it. The handle is wrapped with a very tight dark brown, black leather, and at the cusp of where the handle itself is and where the arrow is notched is this nice golden-bronze cap-like metallic inlay. The rest of the bow itself is this curved, almost deep verdant green jungle vine-type texture to it, where it builds on itself like a series of natural leaf scales. And as it curves into the ends of the actual recurve bow, as you hold it, it flexes and shifts on its own. It actually looks, as you hold it, it almost seems to tighten and then relax, and then as you reach back an arrow, it goes taut, and the string goes extremely tight. As you pull the arrow back, it's like no strength involved at all.

LAURA: What?

MATT: It pulls back on its own, and as soon as you release, the arrow that you fire shoots off at an incredible speed and the actual bow itself flexes with such intensity that it makes this roaring whoosh sound with each shot.

TALIESIN: Well, that's exciting.

LAURA: That's really badass.

TRAVIS: You wanna shoot me with it?

LAURA: I wanna shoot everything with it.

LIAM: Do you still need muscle strength to pull it, or is it just easy-peasy now?

LAURA: It's kind of easy-peasy. I guess anybody could pull this.

LIAM: You're going to have to start doing pushups, then.

LAURA: (laughs) I guess I did say–

MARISHA: Do you want to hit something? Here, I'm–

SAM: Do you want to shoot me? I'll be okay.

LAURA: I'm not going to shoot you.

SAM: I'll be okay, you shot me before.

LAURA: No.

SAM: Right here.

TALIESIN: You don't know what it does.

LAURA: Oh, look at that scar, it's beautiful.

TRAVIS: Can we get out of this fucking tree first?

LAURA: You're right, we should probably get out of here, maybe.

SAM: Guys. Life needs things to live.

(All laugh.)

TALIESIN: I had not had my coffee, I was tired, there was no bacon…

SAM: And we are those things. I think we've all learned a lot today.

LAURA: We've learned so much.

TALIESIN: I hate you so much.

TRAVIS: I walk out of the tree.

TALIESIN: I need fresh air. I'm done.

LAURA: What does it look like outside of the tree? Is the black muck still black mucky?

MATT: I mean, the whole forest is still just coated in this horrible thick liquid.

TRAVIS: Did you loot Saundor's body?

TALIESIN: I did, but it wasn't much.

MATT: But when you approached and you inspected the tree, there was just an ever-constant flow of it, of this thick molasses-type material, just slowly drifting down the tree. You look down and a lot of it seems to have stopped and is hardening, almost like an amber.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Like Jurassic Park.

TALIESIN: This is good.

SAM: (cracks up)

LAURA: Yeah, at least it's not burying the forest anymore.

TALIESIN: No, we did very well.

SAM: Sweet.

TALIESIN: Let's go home.

MARISHA: You guys ready to go home?

TALIESIN: I'm, well. Do we wanna, is there a reason to stay or is it time to go home?

LAURA: Let's get out of here.

MARISHA: I think I've seen enough of the Feywild for now.

TALIESIN: I'm quite pleased.

SAM: We could stop at that hut on the way out.

MARISHA: No, no, no.

LAURA: No no. Not.

SAM: We never found the theater.

LIAM: The theater, the theater! What about the theater?

SAM: You know what we could do–

LAURA: Sorry, brother, I think we have other things to attend to.

SAM: You know what we could do, Vex'ahlia, we could go about 200 feet away from the hut and you could just–fink!–and see what it does and then we'll shift out of there.

LAURA: And then we just shoot out of the Feywild. How about no.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Anybody want to climb to the top of the 200-foot tree to see what the rest of the land looks like?

MATT: (clapping)

LIAM: I fly up there–

SAM: Oh! Wait, someone's here.

MATT: You hear slow clapping from nearby.

MARISHA: That can't be good.

LAURA: Oh, no.

MATT: As you look off to the side of the tree, rounding the bend, you see a very tall and thin, chest-forward, regal-posed, almost elflike but still exaggerated in the Feylike features. Long ears that curl past the head. The head itself is small with a pointed chin, the eyes almond-shaped and wild, curly orange hair like a lion's mane that goes down to the lower back, just up and large, curves up at the very tip. You see sleeveless silk vestments of blue and green billowing freely behind him as he walks up clapping.

LAURA: I instantly case Cure Wounds on myself again.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: At a level three.

MATT: How much do you heal?

LAURA: 13 plus eight is 25.

MATT: There you go. 25.

LIAM: Garmelie?

LAURA: No, that's wrong. 21.

MATT: Bravo, everyone.

SAM: Who is this?

MATT: Bravo to each and every one of you. It's been fun to watch. You know, I get so disinterested in these lands, and I have to say, I'm impressed. Well. I wish to say adieu. Good luck on your journeys.

LAURA: Who are you?

MATT: But I am a simple wanderer. An individual who sees the landscape for artistic benefit.

TALIESIN: I knew it.

MATT: But I'm glad to have made your acquaintance. It definitely made these past few days absolutely devoid of boredom, at the very least, and filled my sketchbook.

MARISHA: Garmelie?

MATT: Is one of my names. I prefer Artagan.

SAM: Artagan?

MATT: But Garmelie suits needs here and there. I go by many names and many interesting–

TALIESIN: I knew I should've asked for that portrait.

SAM: What are you?

MATT: I'm afraid the time for questions is done. As your journey has come to an end, and I have to be out of here quickly as–

SAM: I cast Otiluke's Resilient Sphere on him.

MARISHA: And I cast Hold Person at the same time.

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: What? What! What! What!

TRAVIS: Nice, Sam.

TALIESIN: No! Oh!

LAURA: What is he? Who is he? What is he?

MATT: All right.

SAM: I don't know.

MATT: What's the DC?

LIAM: He's a deity.

TRAVIS: Hold it, Marisha.

SAM: 19.

MARISHA: 19 for mine as well.

SAM: 'Cause I didn't pull up the Cone.

LAURA: Is he like a god?

MATT: Right. So. The sphere appears around his form, however, Keyleth, your spell does not seem to take any sort of hold on him. As it forms around, he's still just standing there unmoved, hands clasped. “That's adorable. So. Where to now? Where's your journey taking you? I take it this was not your only purpose. Where's your next destination?”

TRAVIS: We left an empty grave inside, it's got your name on it if you don't talk.

LAURA: Pfff.

MATT: Please.

LAURA: We go home. And we kill a dragon.

MATT: Good. They are fickle creatures. They need to be taught a lesson.

LAURA: Any tips?

MATT: (laughs) Don't be eaten. Um. Do not misunderstand their intelligence. Some are more bestial. Some are more together. Anyway. If you'd be so kind, I'd like to get on with my day.

LAURA: Wait, one last thing. What is this statue that you tried to steal from me?

TRAVIS: (whispers) Nice.

MATT: Oh, that's a companion. You're welcome to keep him with you. I just figured since I was leaving you soon, I'd have someone to wander at my side as well.

SAM: A companion? What does that mean?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: A statue.

SAM: Does he come to life?

MATT: With the right words, yes.

LAURA, SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: What are those words?

MATT: (laughs) Well. Take some time with it. You'll learn them soon enough.

MARISHA: You know, for someone who hates the theater, you've made quite a show of all this.

(All laugh.)

TRAVIS: Oh man. That was a ten.

LAURA: That was good, that was good, Keyleth.

LIAM: Yep, yep, yep.

MATT: Touche, Keyleth, touche. But no, seriously, I fucking hate the theater. You avoided the other one, right?

LAURA: The hag?

MATT: Hag?

SAM: The hut, the hut.

MARISHA: Wodenna.

LAURA: The hut.

MATT: The hut, yes, you avoided the hut?

SAM: She's not a hag?

MATT: She's many things, but she's not a hag. She's an ex.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Anyway. If you don't mind.

SAM: One question.

MATT: (exasperated noise) Now you grow boring and dreary. I hate boredom.

SAM: Do you stay on this plane or do you come with us?

MATT: No, I stay on this plane.

SAM: All right.

MATT: Unless I decide to come with you. But that's of my own volition. Probably when you least expect it.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Good day to you, Puck. Good day.

SAM: What was your name again?

MATT: Ah, well. Artagan.

SAM and LAURA: Artagan.

LAURA: Thanks for the fun.

TALIESIN: Thanks for the art.

MATT: Thanks for the memories. Ah, memories.

SAM: You know, at some point you should ask yourself why we didn't just kill you and why we knew that you were there the whole time.

MATT: What, you think I didn't let you find me? Think you could've killed me if you wanted?

TRAVIS: Artagan. Did you know Saundor?

MATT: I knew of Saundor, yes.

MARISHA: Did you know Sorudin?

SAM: Who?

MARISHA: Sorudin the Happy?

MATT: Sorudin I did not know, but I was aware of the enchantment left behind. But who am I to lead a horse to water when you are so determined to drink yourself?

LAURA: (laughs) It was great fun.

MATT: That it was. It was great fun. But alas.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: I have a feeling we'll meet you again, Artagan.

MATT: I hope so. It does get ever so boring.

SAM: All right, I'll release the sphere on one condition.

MATT: Yes?

SAM: I believe you have a quill that belongs to us. Just a single writing implement. We lent it to you, we want it back.

MATT: It appears in his hand. “I'm happy to give it to you, but I'm apparently trapped in this sphere of magic.”

SAM: All right, I'll let you go.

MATT: Thank you.

SAM: Thank you. Vax. Was this yours?

LAURA: There's your raven feather. Nice.

MATT: “All right. Travel safe. Stay alive. And maybe visit. If you get lonely.” And he gives a deep bow and just vanishes.

LAURA: He was fucking cool.

TALIESIN: Dear god, let's get out of here before something else happens.

LAURA: I really liked him.

MARISHA: Everyone hold hands and say Kumbaya.

SAM: Okay. Let's go back to our plane.

TRAVIS: You don't want to see the ex?

ALL: No.

MARISHA: We've dealt with enough scorned lovers for one day.

TALIESIN: People get bitchy over here.

LAURA: Where are we popping into?

MARISHA: I guess Whitestone?

TALIESIN: Whitestone.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: What are we doing, we're warping out?

TALIESIN: Yeah, we're warping out.

SAM: Say bye to the Fey.

LAURA: Hold your hands up, brother, we're holding your hands.

LIAM: Yeah, but I'm tangling my fingers up, if she'll let me, with Keyleth.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Gross.

TRAVIS: I let go.

TALIESIN: Ew.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I take his hand.

LIAM: And say, just quietly to the side, You know, you've been pretty fucking amazing lately. As usual.

MARISHA: I say, You haven't been quite bad, yourself. And then we go to Whitestone.

MATT: To Whitestone. The transition takes place, you all feel the breath fill your lungs as all of a sudden your momentum is shot through but a step forward, and you catch yourself standing outside of the Sun Tree in the center of Whitestone's main area. And that's where we'll end tonight's session.

TRAVIS: What! Got your bow!

LAURA: Hey!

MARISHA: You got your bow!

TRAVIS: You didn't die!

TALIESIN: You got your bow.

SAM: Ooh, there it is.

LAURA: Ahh, there's the card, there's the card.

MARISHA: Man, that guy tried to act like he knew you. Fuck that shit.

MATT: Ryan, do you have the–

LAURA: He had so many things wrong.

MARISHA: Oh, dude.

MATT: The item list that you found–

SAM: What does it do, what does it do?

LAURA: Okay, okay. Plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls. 1d4 lightning damage.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: I can declare a bramble-shot like you did. Whoa. Target takes an additional 4d8 piercing damage, plus they have to make a strength saving throw or be restrained.

MATT: Restrained means it can't move, all their attacks have disadvantage, and attacks against them have advantage, until they break free. And this is the figurine.

LAURA: Whoa, this is so cool! Once per short rest, I can use an Oracle Shot.

SAM: What does that do?

LAURA: I can project my sight through my arrow that I fire from it, for up to ten minutes.

SAM: Oh, Prince of Thieves-style?

LAURA: My god.

TALIESIN: Is that really a thing?

SAM: I don't know.

TALIESIN: Okay.

LAURA: That's awesome.

MARISHA: That's cool, she's like Hanzo.

MATT: It's pretty cool.

LAURA: Imagine from the broom up high how far that arrow would go. And then when a creature is killed by an arrow from this weapon, a single six-foot tree grows out of their corpse.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: Out of their corpse?

SAM: A Christmas tree?

LAURA: A Christmas tree.

MATT: Depending on the time of year, it may be.

TRAVIS: You don't need the Onyx Dog, why don't I hold onto that.

SAM: Wait, you got the dog?

LAURA: Wait, no, I wanna see what it is.

MARISHA: Yeah, can we talk about that dog? Can we talk about it?

TRAVIS: You don't need it.

LAURA: I have it.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Travis.

TALIESIN: Roll for it. Roll for it, bro.

LIAM: More animals. More animals for Vex.

LAURA: I don't wanna keep it, I just wanna, I'm the one holding onto it, man.

TRAVIS: We'll have to tune in next Thursday to see what it is.

SAM: Sounds good to me.

TALIESIN: Stay tuned for another episode of Critical Role.

MATT: You're such a terrible person, I love it. All right, well guys, thank you so much. That's the end of this episode, we'll be back next Thursday.

MARISHA: Back in Whitestone!

LAURA: Whitestone!

MATT: To see what adventures befall Vox Machina in the next arc of the story. In the meantime, thank you for watching, we're gonna get some sleep. Thank you Lootcrate for your awesome sponsorship.

ALL: Lootcrate!

MATT: Thank you Critters for having patience for our eleven-plus-hour, 11PM later episode tonight. Ask you all: Is it Thursday yet? 

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around playing Dungeons and Dragons and say inappropriate things before the camera starts.

TRAVIS: Every time!

MATT: Anyway, we have back in person our illustrious rogue, Vax'ildan.

TRAVIS: Welcome back, baby!

MATT: Happy to have you back. Let's get through our announcements quickly so we can hop into the game, because we have a lot to discuss. A lot of things to see. A lot of places to go. First and foremost, if we can give an awesome shout-out to our sponsor Loot Crate. Once again been awesome to the show. Once again, they have their theme this month. Sam, did you want to say a thing or two?

SAM: The theme this month is Sam.

(laughter)

SAM: It's an odd theme. It's all shirts that I've worn. No, the theme this month for Loot Crate is the anti-hero. That's part of the Loot Crate theme and the Loot Wear theme. Not just the box, but the bag as well. But you know what I love?

ALL: What do you love, Sam?

SAM: I love toys. I love socks. I love shirts. I love posters. I love collectibles. I love pins. I love boxes. And I love deals. And you can get all of those things in combination if you get a subscription to Loot Crate. If you use lootcrate.com/– that's a forward slash– CriticalRole, you will be instantly shown a showcase of all the Loot Crate offerings. And you'll get three, not one, not two, a little less than four, but $3 off a monthly subscription.

LAURA: It's just the first month. It's just $3 off the very first month.

SAM: Well, that's not as good.

(laughter)

SAM: But let's be real, it's still pretty good.

TRAVIS: Where'd you get that great t-shirt you're wearing?

SAM: I am the best at advertising.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Why did you have those notes with you?

SAM: (clears throat) Goodbye, Loot Crate.

(laughter)

SAM: $3 off the first month is great, though. It's still great. It's still a good intro. It's essentially like getting– I don't know, I'm done.

LAURA: It's $3 just for writing a word.

LIAM: It gets you in, and when you're in, you don't want to get out.

TRAVIS: And they got really good stuff. You got your t-shirt from Loot Crate, Voltron.

SAM: Oh! I'm wearing a Loot Crate t-shirt right now. It fits. It makes me look strong and handsome.

MATT: It's true. It's true. If that $3 can buy you a six-inch sandwich at an undisclosed location where sandwiches can be constructed, purchased by artisans.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Thank you so much, Sam.

SAM: Sure, I did really good.

MATT: You did great, Sam. That was wonderful. Taliesin, you're handling it next week.

TALIESIN: (groans) Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, next announcements. Two weeks from now, the first Thursday of September, I myself, Marisha, and Taliesin will be out of town. We'll be in the middle of the desert. However, the rest of the crew here will be playing a one-shot game, dungeon mastered by our wonderful, recently proven skilled dungeon master here, Liam O'Brien.

LIAM: I'm all growed up.

MATT: Somehow in the canon world of Exandria. So we'll see how that plays out for you guys. I'm really excited to see what you pull together, man.

LIAM: I have something very delightful planned.

MATT: So that'll be fun. So look forward to that in a couple of weeks. We'll be thinking of you guys while we're not here, but watch this guy be evil. It's going to be great. Anything else anyone wants to discuss?

LIAM: I would like to announce that I am so goddamn happy to be back in this room.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Back in the pilot chair.

SAM: Wait a second, pilot chair?

MARISHA: Just don't think about it too much.

MATT: Can I also point out today that the official World of Warcraft Twitter made a Critical Role joke?

TALIESIN: Is that true?

MATT: Someone sent them a piece of fanart that had a Jaina and an Illidan talking, and the Critical Role, or the response to me from World of Warcraft, was: the Legion is coming towards you. How do you want to do this? That made me happy. So let's dive in to tonight's episode of chaos and heroic whim.

LIAM: What's going to happen?

MATT: Out here, we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]
Part I

MATT: Welcome back. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in their search for the Vestiges of Divergence to gain artifacts powerful enough to rival, hopefully, the power of the Chroma Conclave, a group of chromatic dragons that have been terrorizing the countryside of Tal'Dorei. The party has just finished their journey through the Feywild, a strange, magically overgrown realm of fey creatures, illusion, and apparently, corrupt tree-bros. After a fight with this long-mentally disturbed fey, heartbroken and driven to vengeance and soiling the land around him, you defeated him and took from him the bow, Fenthras, which you've been seeking. Your Vestige, Vex.

LAURA: That's right. That's right.

MATT: You then gathered hands and through the magical capabilities of Keyleth, the druid of the Air Ashari, you managed to Plane Shift the rest of the party back to Whitestone itself. Speaking of which–

LAURA: Already? Already?

MARISHA: How long have we been gone?

MATT: All right, and I also need Scanlan, Percy, and Grog to roll wisdom saving throws.

SAM: What did we do to deserve that?

TALIESIN: We all deserve it. We know we do. That was terrible. I have a thing called Resolve and I have one usage of it left. May I use it?

MATT: You get to reroll a saving throw? Yeah, you may.

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: Would this be magic, Matt?

TALIESIN: That's double.

MARISHA: Goddamn it.

MATT: It's a magical effect.

TRAVIS: We're in trouble.

SAM: If it's not magic, then I have an 11.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Guys, drama needs conflict.

TALIESIN: Eight.

TRAVIS: Six.

LAURA: Oh my god!

LIAM: Hot damn!

TALIESIN: I'm so excited.

MATT: No. As the portal shifts closed behind you, you all step out into the center of the Whitestone city square. You can see behind you the Sun Tree where you guys left originally. It is midday. Clouds are high in the sky. Little breaks where you can see beams of sunlight coming through. Looks like there's a darker rainstorm coming, probably in the next half-day or so, off in the distant northwest, and there are now townspeople looking about at the group of you guys. Keyleth, Scanlan, Vex, and Vax: returning, your mind feels a little fuzzy, but overall nothing seems to have affected you. You're glad to be back. Percy and Grog, you are very confused how you got here and not quite sure why nothing has happened since you gathered here as friends. Yes?

TALIESIN: So do we have a straight piece of missing time? Are we still waiting to go to the Feywild?

MATT: As far as you guys know right now, you guys are still waiting.

MARISHA: That's horrible for Percy. You've wanted to go your whole fucking life!

TRAVIS: All right, I'm ready to go!

TALIESIN: How long does this spell take?

TRAVIS: Yeah, do we have to wait long, because I have the pee. You know? Where you're like hide-and-go-seek pee?

TALIESIN: I did, but I feel fine now.

LAURA: Ready to go to the actual castle?

TRAVIS: Feywild.

LIAM: Keyleth just brought us back. We're back.

LAURA: We're back from the Feywild.

TALIESIN: You're a terrible liar. (laughs)

LIAM: That's true, but it's irrelevant. What the fuck are you talking about?

TALIESIN: What are you talking about?

MARISHA: Does the name Garmelie ring a bell?

LAURA: If he doesn't remember we went, does that mean I lose my title?

LIAM: Maybe you can work it out?

MARISHA: You titled Vex'ahlia.

TALIESIN: I did what?

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: You gave Vex'ahlia a title in your Whitestone kingdom. She was the Duchess of some hut.

TALIESIN: Can someone who can't successfully lie to me please explain to me what's going on?

LAURA: Baroness. Lady Vex'ahlia, Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone, Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

TALIESIN: How do you know about the Grey Hunt?

LAURA: I don't know anything about the Grey Hunt, but it's written down on a piece of paper you gave me, Percy.

TALIESIN: Is it written on a piece of paper?

MARISHA: It is written on a piece of paper.

LAURA: That I actually threw out because I fixed up my notes. So I don't have the piece of paper in this world binder.

TRAVIS: What a dicklord. You did not throw out the paper.

MARISHA: Someone wrote it down, right?

TRAVIS: You piece of shit. Why did you throw it away? What a fucking–

TALIESIN: This is how I know you're lying, because if I had written that down, you wouldn't have thrown it away. That's ridiculous.

LAURA: No, no, it's definitely right here.

LIAM: Are you certain you're not trying to do comedy right now?

TALIESIN: I feel funny. I don't know– for the sake of actual sanity, does she actually have the piece of paper that he wrote down?

SAM: Did he write something down?

TALIESIN: I did, I wrote it down for her and handed to her.

LAURA: He did, and it's just, it's in my– so I don't have it.

MATT: You would've had it with you. You would've definitely had it with you. And yeah, she does.

LAURA: I would still have it. It's just not in this particular not-in-that-world binder.

LIAM: It's not in this realm.

SAM: The binder that Vex carries is much, much better.

TALIESIN: It's got like fur. And some like–

LAURA: Keeps it under her arm the whole time.

LIAM: There are more worlds than these.

LAURA: It's got a happy kitten on it that says “hang in there.”

LIAM: It says life– (laughter)

LAURA: Life needs things to live?

TALIESIN: I don't know what's so funny about that either. I don't remember any of that.

LIAM: It grows on you so quickly, though.

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Show him the paper, Vex.

LAURA: Oh, here. It's right here. Right here. That's your handwriting, don't you see it?

MARISHA: We were committing.

TALIESIN: It's fine. I'm happy to commit to this. Why? What hap–? What?

LAURA: Oh god.

MARISHA: We were in Syngorn.

SAM: Wait, I think I can help. I'm going to cast Modify Memory on Percy.

LAURA: And Grog's just content sitting over here completely blank.

LIAM: Eating chicken that he found on the road.

TALIESIN: This is so exciting.

MARISHA: Little gamey?

TALIESIN: I've never seen him laugh like that before.

MATT: This is– this is a way to do it. All right. All right.

SAM: I can help you remember, Percy. Just look into my eyes.

TALIESIN: I don't want to.

SAM: Look into my eyes.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Well, that's getting giffed. Okay, yeah.

LAURA: But wait, are you just going to make up what he remembers? No!

MATT: Percy, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

TALIESIN: Oh, and I'm out of Resolve.

MATT: What is your spell DC? Is this with the cone? Scanlan, is this with the cone?

SAM: With the cone. I want this to work.

MARISHA: You're going to pull– screaming in his face.

TALIESIN: Wow, eight.

MARISHA: What the fuck?

MATT: Scanlan, how do you modify his memory? Because at this level you can alter the memories of an event that took up to seven days ago.

TRAVIS: What level are you doing?

SAM: Level seven.

MATT: But you can only modify ten minutes of it.

LIAM: Speaking as Liam, remember that this is a man who gave an evil sword– he gave crystal meth to Grog.

TALIESIN: The best crystal meth! The finest crystal meth in Christendom.

SAM: I can change any memory. Ah, what was it called?

TALIESIN: Ten minutes.

SAM: What was your title called? There's nothing on this piece of paper!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Inception.

LAURA: Lady Vex'ahlia. Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

SAM: Jesus Christ. Baroness of what?

LAURA: Of the Third House of Whitestone.

TALIESIN: And Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

LIAM: I have no patience for any of this shit.

SAM: Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

LAURA: Of all the ten minutes to have him remember, maybe that's not the one to focus on.

TALIESIN: It's not remembering. He's going to be making it up. I'm not actually going to remember it, he's going to lie.

LAURA: Make up something wonderful for him. He's wanted to go there his entire life. Make something magical.

TALIESIN: You don't have time to have this conversation. This is happening right now.

MATT: Yeah, go for it.

TALIESIN: This isn't happening. Fuck with me. I'm so excited.

MATT: Scanlan.

SAM: Oh my god. When did we leave? How many days has it been?

MATT: It's been close to a week in the Feywild total, all the nights you've rested.

SAM: I can only modify ten minutes of time.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: So I can't build the whole story up.

MATT: No, he'll remember ten minutes that you plug in right now.

TALIESIN: And by remember meaning whatever you explain.

SAM: All right.

MATT: And remember, as truth, whatever ten minutes he hands out. This spell is one of my favorite spells in the game.

TRAVIS: This is amazing.

SAM: All right, I don't know. I'm going to make him remember that we landed in the Feywild together as a group. It was a beautiful field filled with naked nymphs and fey creatures that all came to him and gave him a wonderful full-body massage.

TALIESIN: Very uncomfortable, all right. But no, that was tension. Okay, yes.

SAM: Vex saw him and he did not want anyone to know about this moment that he had. So in a fit of panic, he gave her something, anything, a title. A title to make her keep her confidence. The title was Lady Vex'ahlia, the Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Gray Hut.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh no.

SAM: She agreed to keep his secret and he had a wonderful time before his memory fades.

TALIESIN: Oh my. Wait, that was– we were– but there was– you shouldn't, no! Yes! I did do this. Yes.

LAURA: You remember?

TALIESIN: I do, and we will never discuss why again, but yes, I did do this, and I'm so glad I wrote it down correctly because that was very embarrassing. I'll have this approved.

LAURA: Approved?

TALIESIN: Yes, well, I'm going to make sure I have to– of course inform– Yes.

TRAVIS: Who's yes?

MATT: It seems the awkward curse of the Feywild has set into a couple of your allies.

TALIESIN: I, apparently, am missing an awful lot of time. But this did happen. Yes, okay.

LIAM: Well, Percival, look at this. Show him the bow.

TALIESIN: Oh, that kind of bow.

TRAVIS: Whoa!

LAURA: Oh, Grog, it's really badass. You killed the guy that was holding it. You.

TRAVIS: Me? So it's mine?

MARISHA: I pull out the piece of the petrified crocodile. We killed this, too. This is all that's left of him.

TRAVIS: What? Those are like amazing things.

LAURA: Wait, is this normal? Would we have known that this is normal for people to lose their memory when they come out of the fucking Feywild?

MATT: No, you would have no idea.

LAURA: We wouldn't have learned any of that in our studies. No?

MATT: Your studies aren't extensive on the Feywild, and the people that may know, partially, are suffering from the circumstance.

TRAVIS: There's a petrified crocodile. What else did you see while we were in this magical place?

SAM: To be honest, my memory is foggy as well.

MATT: No, a little bit. But you guys weren't heavy studiers. You weren't the most studious children.

LAURA: (whispers) I was a studious child.

MATT: For certain things.

LAURA: I was a very studious child. He cheated off my tests all the time. I was incredibly studious.

MARISHA: Percy, I am so sorry. I know how badly you wanted to go there. But here's the good news. Now that I've been there, we can go back at any time.

TALIESIN: Really? You promise?

LAURA: Grog, did this happen last time you went to the Feywild?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: When you– do you remember– okay.

LIAM: I really don't think we need to worry about Grog so much. I think he's fine.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

LAURA: You killed so many things, Grog. You fought so many people.

TALIESIN: Oh god! Did we get alcohol? Did someone give us alcohol?

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: Damn.

LIAM: But that can happen today.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but it won't be fairy alcohol, but I know.

MARISHA: Yeah, we've been, naturally, without alcohol.

LAURA: We need to find Pike. Pike came to help us.

TALIESIN: How long have we been gone for?

SAM: Pike was there.

LAURA: Five days?

SAM: I don't know, it's a bit foggy, but a few days.

LIAM: Guys, let's just go find a wizard and some alcohol, in whichever order.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go file this and I'll meet you in a moment.

LAURA: There's Gilmore, we could talk to him. Allura? Maybe she can help.

TALIESIN: Here. I'm going to make sure that that's finalized with the correct spelling.

LIAM: Jabba the Hutt. Not that grand to me. I start walking off towards the castle.

SAM: We're in Whitestone?

MATT: You're in Whitestone, currently, yes.

LIAM: Come on!

SAM: All right, let's go.

TRAVIS: We just left there.

LIAM: Just eat your pigeon and come along, Grog.

TALIESIN: Strange. Suddenly, I am hungry. Are you suddenly hungry?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We should eat something.

LAURA: I make sure Trinket's out of the necklace.

MARISHA: Yes, I could use a glass of wine.

TALIESIN: I could use a carafe of wine.

MATT: Trinket licks the side of your face. Nuzzles you as you walk towards the castle.

TRAVIS: Wait, if you got a bow, and there were pixies, and you gave her something, did I get anything? Did I pick up any diseases?

LAURA: Lots of diseases.

SAM: You fought bravely. And often. You wielded your weapon strongly and proudly, and had many definite physical encounters, and were never frozen. And showed your power and defended us to the best of your ability.

LIAM: You waded through blood, Grog.

TRAVIS: Can I insight check Scanlan?

MATT: (laughs) You can. Scanlan, make a deception check.

TRAVIS: Six!

SAM: Okay, good. 17.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Holy Jesus.

MATT: Seems legit, and a part of you is disappointed that you can't recall this memory. But even just them speaking of it is almost half of the fun, so.

TRAVIS: That's pretty great. I like all those things you said.

SAM: You were great.

TRAVIS: Did I get any new weapons? I won't be able to pull it out of the bag of holding unless I know what's in there.

SAM: That's true.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check my pockets for anything interesting.

TRAVIS: I don't have pockets.

LAURA: Percy, your sketchbook.

TALIESIN: My sketchbook, yes, what about it?

LAURA: You made sketches the entire time.

TALIESIN: Oh my god! I did!

MATT: And you look through the pages and there are sketches you don't remember drawing.

TRAVIS: Oh fuck! I mean, oh fuck!

TALIESIN: This is so weird.

MARISHA: You had a lovely time.

TALIESIN: This'll do.

MARISHA: We can go back. We'll take a lovely vacation.

TALIESIN: No, no, this and liquor will do.

LAURA: You used your lightning javelin. You–

MATT: As you guys approach–

LAURA: Yes! You have a little statue. You have a little statue, Grog.

SAM: Oh, that's right. A little statue of a dog that might be magical.

TRAVIS: A little statue of a dog.

SAM: An onyx statue of a dog.

TRAVIS: Can I reach into the bag of holding for an onyx statue of a dog?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

SAM: I've seen it, I can reach in there.

MATT: One of you guys can reach in there and get it if you want to. I just want to see if he can.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: Unfortunately, your lack of imagination is finding it difficult based on the words you were given to formulate enough of a solid creative thought.

LAURA: It's black. Onyx means black.

TALIESIN: Honest statue of a hog. It's an honest statue of a hog.

SAM: Doesn't know what onyx is. He's picturing–

MATT: He barely knows what a dog is at this point.

TRAVIS: If you want to reach in here and reach in my bag. Oh.

LIAM: Sam, you can do this to me too.

MATT: And there you have it. The onyx mastiff is there before you.

LAURA: It's an onyx mastiff. It's an onyx statuette of mastiff. If you use an action to speak the command word–

LIAM: Which we don't know–

LAURA: I know. And throw the figurine to a point on the ground within 60 feet of you it becomes a living mastiff for up to six hours.

LIAM: I thought the guy told us we'd have to figure it out. Did he whisper anything to you?

LAURA: It was etched on the bottom and I totally understand it.

LIAM: Oh, you read Elvish?

LAURA: I do.

LIAM: You're partially elvish.

LAURA: It's right there.

SAM: So wait, it's insta-dog?

LAURA: It's insta-dog.

SAM: And then what does it do? Can it fight?

LAURA: It fights. It has sight and hearing checks. It bites and it claws just like– oh, no. It just bites.

SAM: And what happens if it gets killed?

LAURA: I'm looking, I'm looking.

TRAVIS: It has an intelligence of eight.

SAM: What's your intelligence?

TRAVIS: Six.

SAM: Oh my goodness.

LAURA: The creature reverts to its figurine form. It reverts to a figurine early if it drops to zero hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word again while touching it. When the creature becomes a figurine again, its property can't be used again for, ugh, seven days.

TRAVIS: Get to the bottom part, come on.

LAURA: Mastiff has an intelligence of eight (laughs) and can speak Common. It's smarter than you.

SAM: Oh, it's a talking dog?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: I wonder if it has a name.

MATT: It can also see invisibility.

SAM: It can see invisibility?

MATT: That's why it's a good guard dog if you–

LAURA: And objects within that range.

SAM: I like this dog.

LIAM: The only important thing on that paper.

MARISHA: And how long does he last? He just lives until he's done?

TALIESIN: Six hours.

LAURA: Sorry, I didn't mean to read all that and make it not interesting.

TRAVIS: If you set camp though, good sentry.

SAM: But we need to know the magic word.

LAURA: We know it. It's good doggie.

SAM: Oh, we know the word already?

MATT: It's part of the enchantment, yeah.

MARISHA: Good doggie.

SAM: Can you teach us how to say that in Elvish?

TALIESIN: Don't teach him how to say it in Elvish.

LAURA: You can say it in Common. He understands Common.

TALIESIN: He understands Common, that's fair.

LIAM: Vel'ena. Vo'el'ena.

SAM: Vo'el'el'ena?

LAURA: Yeah, that's it.

SAM: Vo'el'la'la'la.

TRAVIS: All right, we start walking back to Whitestone.

LAURA: Grog, I'm sorry.

SAM: Let's get the dog out here.

TALIESIN: Let's hold off on the dog.

MATT: As you guys make your way towards the castle, there's a small group of figures. You see three armored Whitestone soldiers with one figure following them. Different outfit, looks to be simple dark blues and grays. Dark skin, short dark hair, carrying his crossbow at his side. As you make eyes, you immediately recognize this as Jarett.

MARISHA: Jarett!

MATT: Jarett is coming down and he sees. “Aye, friends, it has been a while. I'm so happy to see that you survived. It's been a while. Is everyone okay?”

LIAM: How long?

MATT: “Aye, most better part of a week.”

MARISHA: So it is like Saturday here, right? Time runs the same?

MATT: “Yes?”

MARISHA: So it wasn't yesterday?

SAM: Why did you taste the wind?

MATT: “I don't know why. It's a strange question.”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It tastes like Saturday, certainly.

MATT: “More confused by the question, but it's fine. All right.”

LAURA: How are things here?

MATT: “Well, (sighs) let's just say better for the time being.” And as you look up, what you didn't notice before when you saw the clouds is there's this slight light blue hue to the entire sky.

TALIESIN: Excellent.

MATT: There's this very faint shimmer to it. And he goes, “Ah, the barrier is now up, which is good. As soon as they finished that, Allura, Drake and Kima all left to find information on the green dragon.”

LIAM: Where?

MATT: “I did not inquire as to the location, but they said they should be back in the next few days.”

LAURA: Cassandra might know.

TALIESIN: She will.

MARISHA: When did they leave?

MATT: “It's three days ago? They were hoping to get insight on Thordak's current situation while we amass as many armored folks here as possible and continue to reach out for allies. I think that is the main goal right now, is to find as many allies as we can. It was interesting to put a stake into this fight.”

LAURA: So you're leading an army?

MATT: “Well, we're building whoever we can in this vicinity. There's not many. At the very least, defend, in case this ends up falling.”

LAURA: And what's your role in it?

MATT: Welcome back. Slight little technical issue there. We're going to roll back in. Little bit of information, step into the moment. As Jarett has walked down the steps of Whitestone and began a conversation with Vox Machina about the current situation here, he says how, “Currently, Allura, Kima, and Drake are off trying to find information on the green dragon, Raishan, and trying to discover what best can be done regarding the attack on Thordak in Emon. Here, I am doing the best I can to build what armed forces we have at our disposal, and we're trying to reach out to bring whatever allies are willing to put their stakes into this battle. But yes, this is a monumental task based on my own experience, and I'm doing the best I can. But bear with me, it's–”

LAURA: We have faith in you, Jarett.

MATT: “Thank you, I'm glad somebody does. Assum actually just arrived here. About two or three hours ago.”

LAURA: Yes. We were wondering what happened to him.

MARISHA: Haven't seen him in a while.

MATT: “As were we. Last we heard from Gilmore that he disappeared with Tofor within Emon after the attack.”

LIAM: Shaun's still in the city?

MATT: “Shaun is still in the city. I believe he's actually up meeting with Assum and Cassandra right now in the castle.”

TALIESIN: Let's clean up and head in that direction, I'd imagine.

MATT: “Certainly. Well, if you need me, I'll be around. Just–”

MARISHA: Jarett?

MATT: “Yes?”

MARISHA: Has there been any eyes on the green dragon here recently?

MATT: “None of us have seen the dragon. None of us know its whereabouts, and attempts to scry have been balked. I do not know.”

MARISHA: Okay, thank you.

MATT: “It's all right. I believe there is information on the whereabouts of the white.”

MARISHA: Do we know where?

MATT: “I do not know. That is more for what they hold at the castle.”

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: “Yell loudly if you need me.”

MARISHA: Thank you.

MATT: “It warms my heart to see you all safe.”

MARISHA: Same.

MATT: He gives a little salute and a smile, and continues with the other guards back towards the center of the city. As you guys ascend the steps to Castle Whitestone, you enter the large gates that slowly creak open as you come to the familiar interior. You can hear the voices echoing in the distance from the nearby– what was once the guest dining area of the castle has now been converted into a war room. As you approach the outside of the doors, they're partially ajar; on the inside you can see your sister, Cassandra, sitting at a table. Gilmore is leaned back, arms crossed, tugging on the end of his chin goatee, and you see Seeker Assum currently facing towards Cassandra. They're in mid-conversation right now. As soon as you enter the room: “It is good to know that you all survive, as they've told me.”

MARISHA: Same to you, Assum.

MATT: As he turns and looks towards you, you can see the side of his face that has all the heavy tattoos now bears heavy acid scars that have blended the tattoos into the scarring. It's not a very pretty sight, but he seems to at least be in one piece right now. He still has his thick, hooded cloak around his shoulders, and where normally he has a shaved head, some of the hair is growing in in areas that can grow hair based on the damage to this side of his face.

SAM: What happened to you?

MATT: “What happened to me is I made out a lot better than many of the people there that day. This– I'll take this.”

MARISHA: I'm so sorry.

MATT: “It's fine. I've had worse. Trust me. Come, sit.” Cassandra sits up. “My brother.” She comes up and gives you a big hug and holds you for a second.

LAURA: Pardon our appearance. And stench.

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Do we smell?

LAURA: We're covered in that black messiness, I assume.

TALIESIN: I hadn't even noticed, actually.

MATT: You do. And it is. Its scent has faded a bit, but you all still are not in the most presentable means. However, the conversation's dire tone seems to be enough where no one pays much mind to it.

TALIESIN: We were successful. I will let the others fill you in with some details, although I do– and I'm going to double check, and I'm going to find the brief letter explaining what I've set up with Vex, although it will not have any of the reason why, but it will have at least the nature of what's been done. And we have acquired, well, Vex. Vex'ahlia, if you would.

LAURA: Another Vestige.

MATT: As you pull it out, they all step back. Gilmore leans forward. “Very good.”

LAURA: I would love for you to take a look at it, Shaun.

MATT: “I would love to have a look at it.” He takes it. As you hand it to him, it actually curls around the back of his hands and whips back into a strong, tensile stance, and he– “That's weird.” He takes it and starts looking over it as Cassandra looks back. “I'm glad you're all safe, and apparently named. Welcome to Whitestone, Lady Vex'ahlia.”

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: She takes it, folds it. “I'll have this put in the books immediately.”

TALIESIN: I appreciate your kind generosity.

MATT: “I will request more information soon.”

TALIESIN: We'll see, yes. That might be complicated, but yes.

MATT: “Anyway, have a seat. Assum, please, inform them of what you've been telling us.” As you all find a seat, he sits there quietly, his eyes darting around in his head, ruminating over the thoughts and trying to formulate his presentation. He crosses his fingers in front of his face. “Things are a bit of a mess within the city. None are allowed to leave. Living under the watch of the wyvern guard, hundreds of lizardmen worshipers of Thordak have been watching the city from above. Some have tried to flee beyond the walls, but ultimately end up being returned at the end of a set of talons and not seen again. Thordak calls a gathering every dusk of the surviving populace. Tens of thousands forced to come and gather at the center of the remnants of the Cloudtop District. He gloats, instills fear in all that behold this, and offers forgiveness to those who offer fealty to him. All are to cheer his name, applaud his statements, and thank him for his mercy. Those that fail to do so are pulled from the crowd by his lizardmen and devoured by the beast himself, lined up to the slaughter as a show. And there is laughter from the beast that pushed them into his maw. Most of the wealth of the city is now amassed in the ashes of the district, forming a massive wall of shiny chunk and coin, like a nest around the fucking beast. He's enslaved a number of the greatest sculptors of the city to begin making his likeness in the surrounding stone. They chisel away at the tall, proud walls of the interior, showing his terrible face where it does not belong. A vain fucker. He's crazy, that one. What's more dangerous than an intelligent dragon than one who's crazy? I've been keeping an eye as best as I can. Thordak gives direct orders to his wyvern guard often, some off to communicate, I presume, with the other members of the Conclave; I know not. I've been stuck within the city. Most survivors stay indoors. I've been working with the Clasp, believe it or not, to shepherd over a thousand people below the city streets for protection. The lesser of two evils, to be sure, but at the very least, at the moment they have nothing to gain by working against us at this juncture. Naught but six hours ago, the Cinder King was roaring in anger, his cries echoing through he streets. The people fell to their knees, thinking this was the end. Stepped up from his volcanic throne, and sent the majority of his army eastward. I used this distraction to slip into the now-unguarded Lyceum, find a port scroll and a sigil for Whitestone before they returned. Came here to see all of you alive, so that's the best news I've had in weeks. That's the best I have to bring you about the current state of the city.”

MARISHA: That's our home.

MATT: “That's our home.”

TALIESIN: What is eastward?

MATT: “Kymal. Westruun. Technically, here.”

LAURA: Did you bring any other survivors with you?

MATT: “I was the only one who could make it into the Lyceum unseen. Tofor is still back there, fighting the good fight. She's working with Shenn. They're trying to get as many below ground as possible, and out of harm's way.”

LIAM: And Greyskull Keep?

MATT: “I haven't seen it. I've been within the city walls.”

LAURA: Did you say Thordak's wife? Did I mishear you?

SAM: Wyvern guard.

MARISHA: Wyvern. I heard wife.

LAURA: Wife and guards is what I heard, and I was so fucking confused.

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: Wait, his wyvern guard is often…?

MATT: He sent a majority.

MARISHA: Oh, that's still me manufacturing shit. Okay.

TALIESIN: We don't know where they've been sent. We don't know why.

SAM: Eastward.

MATT: “That's all I've seen.”

TALIESIN: We need to find out where they're going.

MATT: “I had to use that time to get to the Lyceum. Usually it's too heavily guarded.”

TALIESIN: No, of course. Just making a list.

LAURA: You've done so much.

MATT: “I've done so little. There's more to be done. But the more time that passes, whatever it is they're planning, I'm sure is getting closer to fruition.”

MARISHA: Do we have any known whereabouts on the white or the green dragon?

MATT: He looks over and Gilmore steps forward, sets the bow down, and says, “First and foremost, this is a glorious piece. I could only hope to eventually create something of its majesty.” He hands it over. “A bit creepy in ways, but I think you'll make good use of it. Once we complete the barrier and put quite a bit of concentration each day into maintaining it, of which Pike has been of great aid to me, between the arcane and divine magics, I think we found a fine balance. Hopefully. But anyway, I've been putting the rest of my energies towards trying to procure this information. The green, Raishan, as I believe you've told me, eludes my watch, my gaze. There is a lot of protection around that one. I get the sense that of those in the Conclave, she is probably the most trained in my arts.”

LAURA: She's the one that released Thordak, so that wouldn't surprise me.

MARISHA: She's on my shit list.

MATT: “I think she's on a lot of people's shit lists. Mine as well. The white, however. I know not its name, but I was able to look towards it. I was able to find it sitting amongst a large pile of rock and rubble. Looks like a fallen city, crumbled and destroyed. From what I saw, there were smoldering ruins, toppled landscapes of buildings and temples, arcane crystals crashed and cracked, deep inside a ravine. There, the white dragon perched, setting up this slow-rolling winter amongst a shivering horde of dragonborn.”

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: What did he just say? What?

LIAM: Shivering horde of dragonborn.

TRAVIS: Amongst a horde of dragonborn.

LAURA: Draconia?

MATT: “What remains of it.”

LIAM: Fuck.

MATT: “That was days ago.”

TALIESIN: That's a card we no longer have.

MATT: “I need to be careful when doing this.”

LIAM: The city was razed?

MATT: “From what I could see, yes.”

TRAVIS: Did you see any motion? Any slaves?

MATT: “Oh, yes. There were many survivors, but they were not in the best of states.”

TRAVIS: This white dragon, does he bring weather, or any sort of change? It's all ice and snow, yeah?

MATT: “The very essence of each ancient wyrm, if you will, carries with it its own element. It slowly transforms the landscape around where it takes up its new den. If it seems to sit atop the remains of the once-proud Draconia, then it now falls under the icy grasp of the beast.”

LIAM: And the will of the people there?

MATT: “I could not look that deep. My apologies.”

MARISHA: Is this just with a simple Scrying spell? Okay.

TALIESIN: We must be careful. We cannot let Whitestone be discovered.

MARISHA: Yes, and as we've learned before, Scrying can alert your position.

MATT: At this point in time, you guys hear heavy footsteps heading up from the lower floor of the castle. You hear two voices shout out, “Lady Cassandra! Lady Cassandra!” They enter the room real fast. You see one man, probably in his mid-20s or so, sweat pouring down his face, his eyes wide. “My lady.” At that point you hear, echoing outside of the castle, this loud, piercing, shrieking roar.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

MATT: (roar)

LAURA: Shit balls motherfucker.

MATT: It's distant, but even at that distance, it is loud.

LAURA: Gilmore, does the screen keep us hidden?

MATT: You look back, and even in his most damaged state, Gilmore had an essence of confidence, and this is a moment where you've never really seen him so pale. “We're about to find out, aren't we?”

TRAVIS: I'm going outside.

LAURA: I'm going outside, too.

LIAM: I walk up to Shaun and slap my hand on his forearm and say, what about the bow? Is there anything you can tell us about the bow?

MATT: “In due time. Keep it at the ready.”

MARISHA: I turn to Cassandra. We need to get all of the citizens underground, immediately.

TALIESIN: We can't fit everybody.

MATT: “We can certainly try.” She turns to the guard. “Gather everyone we can. Gather–” And there's another roar from outside, this time louder still. “Go! Now!” Everyone starts rushing down the stairs to the outside of Whitestone Castle.

MARISHA: I go out and I do a Skywrite in the sky again.

LAURA: Wait! Skywrite?

MARISHA: They already know we're here!

LAURA: No, they don't! They don't necessarily.

MARISHA: Making pictures in the clouds right above the city. It's fine.

SAM: Maybe not.

LAURA: I wouldn't Skywrite anything right now, Keyleth. That screen could keep us hidden. He could be searching for us right now.

MARISHA: And what about the citizens?

SAM: We'll find another way to alert them. Send out the dog. I don't know.

MATT: Are you guys exiting the castle now?

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: Do it by hand? We might not have that much time.

MATT: As you step out into the front open patio area, just outside of the castle's main gates, you look up and that faint blue shimmer that encases– and you can now see it as a dome, and it comes down around, just directly around the city, closing at the very outskirts of the castle. You look in the distance as you see a few dark shapes growing larger and larger.

MARISHA: They're coming this way!

TALIESIN: Hold.

MATT: I need you to make a perception check, all of you.

MARISHA: Fuck!

TRAVIS: 17.

SAM: Nine.

MARISHA: 26.

TALIESIN: 23.

LIAM: 26.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: All right. Vax, Keyleth, and Percy. You guys glance off and you can see there are a number of shapes. It looks to be probably two, three dozen large winged entities flapping. You can't make out too much of the detail of their form, but you can definitely see some sort of aerial transport with large wings. At the forefront of them, you see one far larger than the rest. While you can't make out the details at this distance, the one thing you do catch is the bits of sunlight that peek through the clouds, hitting the side of its hide. A bright, piercing white color.

TRAVIS: Fucking fucked.

MATT: You see it coasting at an angle around the outside of the city, making its way very quickly towards the outskirts of the town.

MARISHA: It's Thordak's army. Assum said himself we're eastward. We're directly in its path.

TALIESIN: Hold.

MARISHA: Dragons have truesight. They already know we're here.

SAM: Maybe they can't get through this.

MARISHA: Any second we wait longer, more people could die!

LAURA: Send out the guards.

MATT: The guards are already running down, by the way, based on Cassandra's orders, and are making their way towards the city. You can already see people coming out of the streets and looking up, covering their ears. Some people are falling to their knees and crying.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Pick them up. Keep running until the moment they can't.

LIAM: They know we're here. This is not a coincidence. They're not flying by. They know we're here. They know.

MATT: (whoosh) You now see the dragon and the flying horde have just come within a mile of the southern portion of the city.

MARISHA: Percy!

TALIESIN: Wait!

LIAM: Do it.

LAURA: No. Don't do it!

LIAM: They're coming for us!

TALIESIN: This is my home. Wait.

TRAVIS: This is his home.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Keep moving.

MARISHA: You have five seconds to come up with a better fucking plan, or I am doing it.

TALIESIN: Spread out. Keep moving. Find a position.

MATT: Okay. What order are you guys rushing down in?

LIAM: What are we looking at from our vantage point?

MATT: You guys are looking down at the wide, 60-foot earth path that leads down from the base of Castle Whitestone into the city itself.

TALIESIN: If I'm towards the front, I'm moving everyone towards the house where we made the tunnel that goes underneath the Sun Tree.

MATT: All right, so we have Percy at the front.

TRAVIS: I'll be right behind him.

MATT: Okay, Grog's right behind Percy.

LAURA: I'll follow behind Grog.

LIAM: We're up above, though? Or are we on ground level at this point?

MATT: You guys are now on ground level. You're above on the grade that leads down into the city itself.

LAURA: I pull out the broom and I get on the broom.

MATT: Okay, so you're on the broom.

MARISHA: It's clear they're not deviating the path.

LAURA: It's not clear. We could just be in their way.

TRAVIS: He said they're curving.

MATT: They're now curving around the outside of the western side of the valley.

TALIESIN: What are you going to write? What are you going to write?

MARISHA: I would throw up the De Rolo crest, just like before. It's a good alert sign.

LAURA: People would just come out screaming. They won't know where to go.

MARISHA: Then come up with a better damn plan.

MATT: (roar) Echoing through the valley. You watch as the entire crowd of these entities flies around the west side of the city, curves past. The shadow of the light of the sky, you can see the dark, heavy shadow of the dragon and the wyverns pass over the western side of the city. You can hear distant screams as people begin to freak out at this. It passes over the western side of the city, flying right towards the castle.

MARISHA: Percy.

MATT: Arcs past the castle, over the forest, and the entire cluster slowly flaps down and lands at the southernmost beginning peak of the Alabaster Sierras, just north of the city. The dragon (crash noise) lands.

TALIESIN: Alert everyone you see.

MARISHA: They're scouting us.

TALIESIN: Tell them to get underground. Tell them to be silent.

LAURA: They don't see us, but they know we're nearby.

TRAVIS: What direction are they looking?

MATT: Right now, they're looking in all directions, actually.

LAURA: We need to get everybody underground while we can.

LIAM: We have time. We have time.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Find everyone. Tell them, silence. We still have the cavern we built underground. Start making it larger.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Shall we scatter? Spread the word?

LAURA: Spread the word. Tell everyone to get underground.

TALIESIN: Under the tree.

MARISHA: I go to the cavern under the Sun Tree and I start casting Move Earth and I start clearing it as fast as I can.

MATT: Okay. It's going to take you a while, but you begin building this cavern.

MARISHA: As fast as I can.

TALIESIN: More people.

SAM: Where are we telling people to go?

TRAVIS: We're scattering.

TALIESIN: There's the inn that was broken. It's got an entrance. They either go there or they go underneath the castle.

SAM: That can hold 30, 40 people?

TALIESIN: She's making it bigger.

LAURA: Can we send people under the castle as well?

SAM: Okay, under the castle, yeah.

MATT: You guys all begin scattering, grabbing everyone you can. The guards are starting to gather people, and as you get the word out, people begin to quiet, holding their mouths. The guards are holding people silently. People begin ushering en masse up towards this giant exodus from the city, pouring like a funnel up this walkway to the base of Castle Whitestone. Keyleth, as you're down there, you're pressing. The dirt itself is slowly molding its way into this large cavern, pressing downward further and further and opening, further down and opening.

MARISHA: Fallout cavern style. Big, lower, bigger, lower.

MATT: You get about three platforms down before the earth stops responding.

MARISHA: What do you mean?

TRAVIS: Fucking ziggurat!

MARISHA: The fucking ziggurat!

TALIESIN: Other way, other way!

MARISHA: I go the other way!

LAURA: Don't empty out the earth too much, or it won't support the city.

MARISHA: Fallout style. Little pods.

MATT: All right. You start creating all these various things, and people start ushering in. It's getting to the point now where there's so many people. You hear crying children, families pressed in, you're feeling claustrophobic and the room's getting hotter and hotter the more bodies that are in there. You keep concentrating and pushing the earth out. You can feel the sweat beads pouring down your face, concentrating, concentrating. You hear the crying and sobbing, and people trying to comfort those that are freaking out. Every now and then you hear a distant echoing cry, a scream of a dragon in the distance, and everyone in the room tenses, and the sobbing gets even louder, then hushed again with whispering silence. You keep pushing and keep pushing, opening. You guys all begin to gather the rest as you watch, with that final cry, the dragon and the wyverns pick up (whoosh) and swoop towards the center of the valley, arcing to the west, and do a wide sweep of the mountain range. (flapping wings)

LAURA: Where's Gilmore?

MATT: Gilmore has been bringing people en masse down to the castle. You haven't seen him for a number of– probably 15, 20 minutes or so. The dragons coast around, and begin to disappear in the southeastern distance where they came from. You do, at this point, catch Gilmore, who has moved to the top of the castle and is currently, arms out, concentrating, pouring all the energy he can into that barrier.

TRAVIS: Looks like the spell worked.

LIAM: Good work. Good work.

LAURA: Gilmore. Good job.

MATT: He eventually comes down from the top of the castle. He is– eye sockets are sunken. You can see he's pouring with sweat. “I'm going to need a spa day. Because I'm done.”

LAURA: Where's Pike?

MATT: You guys find Pike. She, during this whole period, was over by the temple of Pelor that she was helping right and construct. Going over and finding out where she's been placed, you guys see that she's shepherded in a good 200 people into that temple, and has been keeping them divinely protected the whole time. As soon as you approach the outside, the people begin to slowly disperse back into the city. Pike walks out, looking out to the sky and locks eyes with you. “You're back!” Runs up and gives you a big hug. Jumps into your arms at this point. You catch her, and realize how heavy she is with the armor on, put her back down.

LAURA: I drop her, because I'm fucking weak.

MATT: “Guys! Hi!”

LAURA: You did an amazing job with that.

MATT: “That was mostly him. I've never done something like that before. That was– everything okay in the Feywild? I'm sorry, I lost my connection. We had to finish this ritual.”

LAURA: No, it was fine.

MARISHA: Hi, Pike. Sorry.

MATT: “Don't be. I'm glad you're all okay.”

SAM: Do you remember the Feywild?

MATT: “Yeah. We were–”

SAM: Okay. Just making sure.

LAURA: He doesn't remember, Pike.

MATT: “You don't remember?”

TRAVIS: Yeah. Apparently, we went to the Feywild, and everybody remembers it but me and Percy.

MATT: “Why is that?”

LAURA: I don't know.

TALIESIN: It's funnier that way.

MARISHA: Maybe you can look at his head later.

LAURA: Maybe there's a way to cure it.

TRAVIS: I'm just too smart.

MATT: She walks up and takes a look at you, walks up to Grog. Has a good look at the side of your head, knocks you in the temple a few times.

TRAVIS: What do you see?

MATT: “There's nothing… physical. I'll try a restoration.” She would have, let's see here.

SAM: Pike stats!

TALIESIN: I was about to say, you have an Ashley app. That's so adorable.

TRAVIS: Don't make me any dumber.

LAURA: Grog, that's not possible.

MATT: Yeah, she's going to try Greater Restoration. Let me check something here real fast.

SAM: That was not fun.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Percy, are you sure it's okay for me to let these people out?

TALIESIN: Of course it's not, but yes, definitely let them out. We'll have to make it more secure and safer.

LAURA: I think it's gotten quite a bit away from us.

MATT: So Pike reaches up. The gauntlets begin to glow, and as she touches each side of your temples, your eyes close. As some of you watch this, Grog's eyes flash open, and where his pupils and the whites of his eyes were, you now see a flash of divine golden orange light. As it fades, you are slammed with a series of memories that were previously taken from you, and you recall every moment in the Feywild.

TRAVIS: (surprised noises)

SAM: I'm sorry! I'm sorry, you didn't get to kill anything. I'm sorry.

LAURA: No, he did! He still killed the big bad guy!

SAM: Oh, you did! You did, you killed the one thing. Okay, good.

TRAVIS: I got petrified!

LAURA: Yeah, well, stoned.

TRAVIS: I tried diplomacy! Never again.

SAM: Lesson learned.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: Can you only do that one time a day?

MATT: “No, I can do it once more.”

SAM: Maybe… well…

TRAVIS: No, it's okay, yeah! Percy will remember the nude massage.

MATT: She walks up to Percy.

LIAM: Think of what he's losing, though.

TALIESIN: I'm not losing it.

LAURA: Potentially.

TALIESIN: No, because it doesn't matter. It's there anyway.

SAM: Actually, I don't know. I don't know.

MATT: Yeah, you have overlapping memories. So she reaches up and you bend down. She takes your glasses off. Hands them to Vex. Reaches up and touches the sides of your temple. “Now, concentrate.” Close your eyes, and there's a burst of warmth towards the front of your lobe, almost like someone's dipping your head into hot water. And with that, there's a smattering of memories that are rushing into your mind. It takes you a moment. Your head swims, and you have to almost sit down. You almost stumble off your back foot as your brain now has to reorganize those lost moments. Seven days now immediately restored.

TALIESIN: Seven days, ten minutes.

SAM: Greater Restoration kills Modify Memory.

TALIESIN: Oh! But do I remember having the fake memory? Or do I not remember having a fake memory?

MATT: You would remember the spell being cast. You remember the fake memory, but you're aware that it's fake.

SAM: And that I did it?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: Oh yeah.

SAM: Fuck.

LIAM: Just say thank you, Percival.

MATT: “Did it work?”

TALIESIN: I give her a big hug. I'm so tired. I'm sorry. I'm going to sit down.

LAURA: What?

MATT: “Glasses?”

LAURA: Oh, but they're so fun to look through! All right.

TALIESIN: They'll give you a headache.

MATT: She takes the glasses, and as you're resting, she takes your hand away from your head and puts them back on.

MARISHA: I start slowly releasing people from the pods.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: People begin to emerge, and where once there was this air of tension, fear, and desolate acceptance of the end, there's laughter. There's smiles, and even more tears as people begin to realize they have another day to live.

LAURA: Can we tell the people as they come out, I know you'll want to celebrate, but please keep it as quiet as possible tonight. We don't know when it could be back.

MATT: There's a stillness and a slow understanding and nodding. While everyone takes in the information, one young woman, smeared dirt on her chin, dried tears on her cheek, steps forward and goes, “Thank you. Thank you.” And everyone else starts saying, “Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.” This sea of thank-yous begins to spread through the crowd immediately in your vicinity.

SAM: Don't thank us. Thank Shaun Gilmore.

LAURA: Gilmore and Pike. Allura.

MATT: They all quietly go back to their silence and begin to slowly disperse themselves throughout the city where they were before this incursion happened.

MARISHA: I go up to Percy.

TRAVIS: I forgot that Shaun was Gilmore's first name.

LAURA: He was like, who's Shaun?

SAM: Intelligence of six.

LIAM: So fucking method. Method, man.

MATT: Keyleth.

MARISHA: I hope you know that I would never–

TALIESIN: Shut up. Thank you.

SAM: I hope you know that I was only trying to improve your life with a wonderful happy memory, and it was mostly true.

TALIESIN: I know where you sleep. People work for me.

MATT: Assum has caught up to you now as you guys are walking back to the city. You can see him. He's still, eyes to the sky, not truly trusting this quiet. He goes, “It seems we don't have any time to lose. What resources do you have to fight back? What have you learned? Please tell me you have better news than I have.”

TRAVIS: Well, we've got a few of these Vestiges, so we're a little powered up. But we're not quite sure what their full abilities are. It's significant, but we think they do more, we're just not sure how much.

MATT: “What more do you need?”

LAURA: Can I fly up in the air while this conversation's going on?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Don't go too high.

LAURA: Not too high.

SAM: We don't know where the thing is.

LAURA: No, I know, I want to go to the very top where I see the shimmer.

MATT: Yeah and it's a squat shimmer, not a full dome and it's like a very extended type dome.

LAURA: Okay. But it's high enough, that I mean it's higher than the castle.

MATT: It's high enough where you can get about 80 feet up and you start to see enough detail in the shimmer where you're like, “Okay, I'm getting close.”

LAURA: Okay. The direction that the dragons went. Is this stupid? Can I shoot my Oracle Arrow in that direction?

SAM: No. Absolutely not.

LAURA: Why?

SAM: (high-pitched) Why would you bring attention to us?!

LAURA: It's an arrow!

LIAM: They're long gone.

MATT: They are gone. The time has passed. They're miles and miles and miles and miles and miles at the speed they were traveling. You're a good shot, but I don't know if you could arc an arrow that far.

LAURA: Oh well, I guess that's true. I thought it was a ten-minute, because it's Fenthras I thought it was a long-ass arrow.

TRAVIS: Can't you tell what direction the dragons were heading?

LAURA: Oh! Wait, okay, so the Oracle Arrow, is it like you fire it, and then it shoots somewhere and it sticks there and I can see through it for ten minutes?

MATT: Correct. Or see through it as it's fired, the minute it leaves the bow you can project your sight through the arrow for up to 10 minutes.

SAM: It can't fly for infinity?

MATT: No. It still arcs like a regular arrow.

LAURA: That makes sense. I foresaw it just going, because I thought it was like a special kind of arrow.

LIAM: It's really good for people without flying brooms.

LAURA: Right. Cool. Then I'm not going to use it. Because now I understand how it works. I've learned something.

TALIESIN: What direction were the wyverns traveling, were they traveling back? Or were they traveling along–

MATT: They were heading southeast.

TRAVIS: So not back, they came from the west, right?

MATT: They swooped in from the west, from that side.

TALIESIN: But they originated in the west, and they are currently traveling southeast?

MATT: Correct. However, it was Vorugal, it was the white dragon, which from what Gilmore is saying has been roosting over at the top of the ruins of Draconia.

TALIESIN: Which is to the east.

SAM: So this was not the group that had set off from Emon.

TRAVIS: To the west.

TALIESIN: No it's– Draconia is to the southeast. Why do I know that?

SAM: Here, here's the map. We're up here. This is the group that was coming from Emon. These guys came from somewhere over here? Where's Draconia?

LAURA: Can I cast Primeval Awareness and see if it's within six miles of us right now, still? Or if it's farther away from that.

MARISHA: I thought that Draconia's on a whole another continent.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it is. It's over here.

MATT: It's over on Wildemount.

LAURA: I want to see if they're just camping out around us or if they're going away.

TALIESIN: Are they going back?

MATT: Using for dragons, I assume, right?

LAURA: Yes. It's my favored enemy.

MATT: Yeah. I would say as part of your Primeval Awareness–

SAM: If this is the United States, we're in Maine. Emon is LA.

MATT: Yeah. Sensing at this point, with the day of travel and everything, you have no sense of dragons in that direction or anything.

LAURA: Okay. They're further than six miles away.

MATT: Yeah, there are minor essences in the northern area, but nothing beyond what you've already sensed in the Alabaster Sierras. Nothing on the level of strength that the draw of an ancient dragon would bring on your radar.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: To answer your previous question, there are four Vestiges left.

TALIESIN: That we know of.

LIAM: There's a dagger, there's a cloak. Armor. There's a staff.

SAM: Wait, there's other objects that we haven't–

MATT: “All right.”

MARISHA: Four left. Because we have Whisper, right?

LAURA: No, no, we don't have Whisper.

MARISHA: So there's five.

MATT: “Do we have any other allies, friends, people who are sworn to aid us and–?”

TRAVIS: Ooh! Yeah, yeah! Your parents.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That's right.

LAURA: Technically, the elves of Syngorn are building an army. However, who knows if they'll actually come through.

TALIESIN: The werewolves could be called upon.

MATT: “I think they would understand it would do them well to help what is a threat to all of us.”

TALIESIN: You would think.

SAM: One werewolf has vowed allegiance to us.

LAURA: In the Feywild.

TRAVIS: In another plane of existence, which I don't know if that's a problem.

MATT: “Not going to count on that one.”

TALIESIN: It's not as ridiculous as you think.

SAM: Yes. Your former pals.

TALIESIN: Whatever remnants of Draconia perhaps?

MATT: “Wait. So the last time we saw the main portion, the bulk of Emon's army from Fort Daxio was sent to Syngorn before this attack happened?”

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: “Do we have any knowledge on their whereabouts?”

MARISHA: A lot are there.

MATT: “They're there?”

MARISHA: A lot of– at least all of our guards from Emon are in Syngorn, right?

LAURA: No. Our guards aren't in Syngorn.

MARISHA: Not our personal guards, but Emon's guards.

LAURA: No.

MATT: You did see quite a few soldiers from Emon there.

LAURA: Oh we did?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: I was distracted.

MATT: That's okay. You did have a lot to think about with your dad.

TALIESIN: They would not answer our call but if someone has relations with the Clasp, they are always an option for manpower.

MATT: “Well, I have been dealing with them and definitely– they're not much of an army, but they're definitely good at acquiring information and I currently have a few of them trying to find out as much as they can about Thordak.”

MARISHA: There's also the Ashari druids, who will definitely want to help our cause.

TALIESIN: This is very true.

MATT: “That is good to know. Well, any more that come your way or any possibilities you have to bring more to our cause, please, do so.”

SAM: There's a candle-maker who might help out. I would put him in the strong maybe category as well.

TALIESIN: Don't mention that Vex flies.

MATT: “Good, well keep tabs on those you've found and any possibilities of others, especially those who have… I don't know, more of these Vestiges that you speak of, or armies at their disposal. Big weapons, anything. I'll take anything at this point really.”

TALIESIN: There are options but we need to discuss what happened today. This changes some things.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we need more offense, less defense. I don't know if that will work a second time.

TALIESIN: You're mad. We need defense. This is not a site of a victory, this is a site of our end. We need bunkers.

LAURA: Yeah. We need to move everybody underground the same way we did in Emon.

MARISHA: I can spend more time fleshing out and reinforcing the bunkers to make them–

TALIESIN: I'll discuss a warning system to get people underground.

SAM: But when the dragon came here just now, they saw nothing, correct?

TALIESIN: We hope.

SAM: Is there a way that we can spread false rumors that the city of Whitestone has been

magically moved to another plane or something?

LAURA: That's wonderful. That's smart.

SAM: Some way of getting that word to Draconia or I don't–

TALIESIN: Putting the word out that we're other places than we are. Putting the sound–

MATT: Assum thinks to himself and goes–

LIAM: Can't we drop it into the Clasp's pipeline?

MATT: “I can do that. Definitely. We can find a way to get that information. There are a number who have sworn allegiance to Thordak and, you know. Some folks who don't see honor but the necessity to stay alive override any sort of previous friendships.”

TRAVIS: Best not to mention our name. I don't think we're cool with the Clasp after our last meeting.

LAURA: Yeah, they don't like us.

MATT: “Good to know. I'll look about planting that information. I'll do the best I can in that regard. I've been told that you've already felled another of the Conclave, is that correct?”

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: That's true. Umbrasyl. Dead and gone.

MATT: “That will certainly stir some attention from them.”

LAURA: Yeah, and if not that, then the message left in there.

TALIESIN: They know we did it.

TRAVIS: Strange that he had all those wyverns with him, though. Umbrasyl had none. He was by himself.

LIAM: They don't like each other, though, this is some sort of loose partnership.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but didn't they say the white one was more savage. More emotional?

LAURA: The white one was more vain.

MARISHA: Yeah, the black one, Umbrasyl is the one that's–

SAM: Oh you're right, the white one is a hunter, it's primal. Hates others. You're right.

TALIESIN: Maybe the army's going to head to– no, we could be so lucky if it was on its way to attack it.

MARISHA: Black ones like torture, right?

LAURA: Yeah, they like to make people suffer.

TALIESIN: I feel like there should be trading cards.

SAM: So the white one's like Predator?

LAURA: Shut up! There's notes somewhere in here!

MATT: “Just be warned: fell one dragon, that might make them nervous. Fell another and that's almost certain to bring retaliation.”

TALIESIN: We were hoping to distract them.

MATT: “Well, the next wyrm you decide to fell will probably be the start of this war.”

TRAVIS: Can we ask, why would it bring retaliation? How would they know it was us?

TALIESIN: We did sign the card.

MARISHA: We left our names.

LAURA: Maybe the next one we can sign as somebody else.

TRAVIS: What if we don't sign it?

LIAM: Even if we don't, they probably are going to get much more vindictive overall.

MARISHA: And just as much as we can scry on them, they can scry on us. I'm sure they've been watching us.

TALIESIN: I don't think they know where we are. I think they know when we travel, I just don't think they know where we are.

MATT: “Have any of the living ones seen you?”

LAURA: Have any what?

MATT: “Have any of the living ones seen you and know you for who you are?”

TRAVIS: When we killed the first one, there were a bunch of jewels in the wall and we saw a bunch of eyeballs.

TALIESIN: He did not know our name, but he has seen us.

LAURA: Raishan saw us, the white one saw us, all of them saw us.

MATT: “Then it is very possible.”

SAM: Wait a second, you just said no one knew we were here, none of them knew we were here.

TALIESIN: Here.

SAM: They just attacked here. And we just got back here.

LAURA: Gilmore was scrying on them. It took three days for him to get here. That's how he knew.

SAM: Because Gilmore was scrying on them. Got it. Not because we have a leak.

TALIESIN: We probably do. We should assume we have a leak.

SAM: I'm going to blame Shaun.

TALIESIN: Is he Shaun now?

MATT: “You're more than welcome to.”

SAM: Sorry! (chuckles)

MATT: He's sitting down, wiping his brow with this really fine scarf.

MARISHA: Judging based on what happened in Emon, we know that they have an insider, we just don't know who yet.

SAM: They do? We know this?

TALIESIN: I would assume that there's nothing we say that they don't know at this point.

LAURA: They struck during a political–

MARISHA: During a council meeting.

LAURA: Somebody has to be telling them things.

MARISHA: Someone probably very high up.

LAURA: It could be Raishan taking the form of a human again, for all we know.

SAM: Who was there and lived? Besides us?

MATT: Jarett catches up, by the way. (panting) “Is everyone all right?”

LAURA: Yes. How are the citizens? Did you get everyone in there?

MATT: “Everyone seems to be safe and accounted for. There was a lot of fear, of course, but elation, whatever you did.” And he looks at you and looks at Shaun. “Whatever you did, keep doing it, please.”

TRAVIS: I insight check Jarett.

MATT: Make an insight check.

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: It's hard to read that fella. Slippery.

LIAM: Can I do an insight check on Assum?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: What are you doing?

SAM: Ooh, that was a Luck.

LIAM: First one was good anyway.

LAURA: Oh, you're just hoping? First one was really good.

LIAM: Damn. I can choose whichever one I want. 21.

MATT: 21.

LAURA: About Jarett?! You're insighting Jarett?

SAM: Seeker Assum.

TALIESIN: Perhaps we should not have… assumed.

MARISHA: Hey, Travis! How is it you're on this side of the table?

TRAVIS: Well I was looking for a Loot Crate. Have you guys seen any Loot Crates?

SAM: Oh! Well I've got some of the great swag that you can get in a Loot Crate. Why this shirt came in one last week.

TRAVIS: That's incredible! How do I get one of those?

SAM: You go to LootCrate.com/CriticalRole to see your selection and then if you sign up, you get three dollars off the first month, which is a really good deal!

TALIESIN: Ironically when we played the game at home this is exactly what we'd do.

MATT: Totally.

LIAM: Sam who are you talking to? You're facing a potted plant.

SAM: I'm talking to Seeker Assum! He's a big fanboy.

MATT: Gilmore stands up and catches the edge of Vax's shoulder.

LIAM: Hey.

MATT: “All right, so, what's your plan? What's the next order of business?”

LAURA: Get you a drink, I think.

MATT: “A drink would be great.”

TALIESIN: I think we talk and drink.

LAURA: Yes. We need to talk about barricading underground. Making it more secure.

MATT: “Come. I can definitely use that right now.” You guys are led into the nearest open– it looks to be an unused tavern, but there are drinks, ale and things that are at the ready. There isn't much commerce currently happening in the city, since right now everything's in survival mode, so there's no exchange of money, you guys are presented with drinks. The lanterns are lit on the inside from other villagers that are just happy to help. And the central table is set where you all sit around and quietly have a few sips.

LIAM: While everyone's sitting, can I just pull him over to a corner for a second?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: How are you doing, personally?

MATT: “Me?”

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: “Wondrous! I'm doing great! (chuckles) I'm exhausted.”

LIAM: Shaun, I–

MATT: “I'll be fine.”

LIAM: You sure?

MATT: “Yes, I'm fine.”

LIAM: All right.

MATT: “It's been a long time since I put my energy and talents towards anything beyond making shiny things. Feels nice to be helping others.”

LIAM: Well, I feel we're seeing your true talents.

MATT: “I'm at my wits' end with these. Do you want to see true talents? You should ask Allura to show you what she's capable of when she gets back.”

LIAM: She is pretty nifty.

MATT: (sighs heavily)

LIAM: Well, come on, come and have a drink.

MATT: And he like leans on you a bit and you both make it back to the table. The rest of you–

SAM: This booze is okay, but Grog, I could really use the finest wine I've ever had.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, hold on.

LAURA: We've got some fancy-ass bottles.

TRAVIS: I reach into the bag of holding and I grab five expensive-ass bottles of wine.

LIAM: Holla!

MARISHA: Scanlan and I will share one.

SAM: Good idea.

LAURA: Just one bottle between the two of you?

SAM: We don't weigh very much.

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I'm involved in this. This is exciting.

MATT: You guys scatter the wine amongst your glasses. Drinks are had as you begin to discuss the plan.

TALIESIN: Pour one for the landlord as well. He's letting us drink our wine in his room.

MATT: Assum leans in. “All right. So. Vestiges. Defenses. Allies, what's the next plan? "What's the next–”

TRAVIS: Well, I've a question. If I were to call somewhere a City of Brass, where would you think that would be?

MATT: Assum goes, “There are cities that use brass in parts of construction in Wildemount, that's as far–” Gilmore leans forward and goes, “No, that's in the Elemental Plane of Fire. That's a dangerous, terrible place that you should never go.”

TRAVIS: We were already there once, actually.

TALIESIN: Terrible dangerous places you should never go are practically our middle name.

LAURA: We saw Thordak there, actually.

MATT: “Oh! Even more of a reason not to go!”

MARISHA: Well, he's here now, so Fire Plane's probably safer!

TALIESIN: She's got a very fair point.

LAURA: Why do you ask, Grog?

TRAVIS: Well, look, the Plate of the Dawnmartyr is in a City of Brass, but I don't know where that is.

LAURA: I bet that sounds something Pike would like.

TRAVIS: Draconia is in Wildemount?

MATT: “Draconia is in Wildemount, yes.”

TRAVIS: Right. And so is the big white fuck, right?

TALIESIN: Yes. Are any of the Vestiges in Wildemount?

TRAVIS: The City of Brass?

MATT: “Whereabouts are the Vestiges?”

LIAM: One at the bottom of the sea.

LAURA: One is in Marquet?

MARISHA: The City of Brass is in the Plane of Fire. We've covered that.

SAM: It's not in Draconia? It's in the Plane of Fire?

MARISHA: The city is in the Plane of Fire.

SAM: Correct. Where's Ank'Harel?

MARISHA: Ank'Harel is on the continent of– what's it's called?

MATT: Gilmore chuckles to himself, “Ank'Harel. It's been awhile.” And looks at–

MARISHA: What's the continent? I suddenly blanked on it. You just said it.

MATT: Marquet.

MARISHA: Marquet. It's on the continent of Marquet.

MATT: Ank'Harel is also where Jarett is from, which is where you first heard. Gilmore smiles. “It's where I grew up, or nearabouts, at least.”

SAM: Where you grew up, Gilmore?

MATT: “Well, not in the city, a little ways out a bit.”

SAM: You're Marquatian?

MATT: “Originally, yes, but I've been living here most of my life. Soon as I had the opportunity to leave– It's a free plane here in Tal'Dorei and all the shops I can muster… until they all got destroyed.”

LAURA: Good times.

MATT: “It's fine. I'd made the bottom floors too small anyway. More space. Next time.”

LIAM: You ever want to revisit home?

MATT: “Maybe. Nah. I need to stay here and maintain this.”

LAURA: Yes you do. If you don't mind.

SAM: What about the endless maze of the Abyss? That's another place that we're supposed to go.

MARISHA: Also another plane of existence.

MATT: “I don't know much about the Abyss, but I know that it's probably the worst place ever.”

LAURA: Abyssal. That's where demons come from.

TRAVIS: Worse than the Fire Plane?

MATT: “That's correct.”

LAURA: That's the thing that killed Pike.

TRAVIS: Wait, isn't that where the rakshasa's going to be?

MARISHA: That's in the Nine Hells.

LIAM: He's a devil.

TALIESIN: Ironically is somewhere else entirely.

LIAM: And I think we can table Meowmix for a little bit. Somebody told us it takes a while.

LAURA: Months and months.

MARISHA: Months but we also don't want to wait until–

LIAM: Not forever.

TRAVIS: Who's got a map?

SAM: I've got a map.

TRAVIS: Where's the Ozmit Sea?

TALIESIN: Before we even think of this, we should see what we're– I don't think we're going to collect all of the Vestiges. We should see what other Vestiges we think are going to be helpful.

SAM: It's like the Pacific Ocean.

TRAVIS: Which direction is it? Towards Draconia?

SAM: No. Draconia's across the Atlantic Ocean in France.

MARISHA: But the Ozmit Sea is where the Water Ashari reside. And I have to go there anyway. It's also where Pike is very familiar. I'm pretty sure that's the sea that she sailed?

LIAM: And the Vestige there is the staff?

LAURA: Whisper, right?

SAM: Whisper, the blade.

MARISHA: Whisper, the blade.

TRAVIS: Well, look, hey, so I have an idea, right. Someone mentioned that the white dragon is very vain and very savage. He's got like all those wyverns around him. That's a little bit of a bitch for us. We're usually good one dragon on all of us. You got a whole gang, worse for us. So what about if we played to his vanity, and maybe sent him knocking on one of his Conclave brother's doors. Maybe start a little beef that maybe's not there.

SAM: How do we do that?

TRAVIS: I don't know, the idea just popped up. I'm looking for your help and shit.

LIAM: He's a big picture man. Here's the detail fellow.

TRAVIS: You know how tired I am right now?

LAURA: We're so tired.

TALIESIN: I think that we've been thinking about this the wrong way. I think that we've been treating this as a battle. And we have to start treating this like a war, which is a very different creature.

SAM: Are we guerrillas?

TALIESIN: We are absolutely not.

LIAM: Beret.

TRAVIS: Wolverines!

TALIESIN: We need to reinforce this city not as a final stand, but as a place where there might be survivors. Because if they come here, there's no battle to be fought. It's just a loss.

LAURA: We need to take it–

MARISHA: Elsewhere.

MATT: At this point Jarett steps out from back of the room and says, “The more time that goes by, the more chance there is that the battle, the war, will be fought here. On our turf. The faster we move, the better chance we have of bringing it to theirs, so let us not dilly-dally.”

MARISHA: You mentioned about having our own mole at one point. Our own inside man.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Scanlan.

SAM: I'm not going to volunteer myself as a slave to the dragon.

TRAVIS: Keep thinking about it.

LIAM: You are a sexy dinosaur.

SAM: I'm considering it.

TRAVIS: You'll be the Hercules Mulligan of Vox Machina.

ALL: Hercules Mulligan!

TALIESIN: I would like to talk to some of the magic users about installing some sort of– or perhaps helping me install a non-magical dragon raid signal so that the population knows to be quiet, and knows to quietly go underground. In the event of the next fly-by.

MATT: They all look at each other and Gilmore nods. “That's actually, I wouldn't say rudimentary, but it's definitely within my skill set.”

TALIESIN: Would triggering it possibly alert them to our existence? Does it make holding up the shield–

MATT: “Not if I can maintain it underneath the barrier.”

SAM: Does the barrier block sound and visuals?

MATT: “It should.”

SAM: And is there any way that we can help you make this barrier more permanent and stronger?

MATT: “I don't know. This was crafted for this reason. This isn't a long standing existing incantation. This was crafted through the minds of Drake Thunderbrand and Allura and myself and Pike's aid. This is a new magic, it's experimental, and to be perfectly honest, I'm very glad it succeeded because I was–”

LAURA: Just guessing?

MATT: “Essentially.”

LIAM: Also, Gilmore, as a sidebar, what about that black ball beneath the city? Has anything been learned of it?

MATT: “We've been a bit distracted.”

LIAM: That's what I thought.

TALIESIN: I would like to put it to use.

LAURA: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: We're at war.

LAURA: We can't move it.

TALIESIN: We're not going to move it.

SAM: We're going inside it.

TALIESIN: I want to put the private council table in the room with it.

SAM: In the room where it happens?

LAURA: So they can't scry into the room, it cancels all magic.

TALIESIN: So no glamor will survive, no magic will survive, no trick can be allowed.

MATT: “I love your mind, Percy. Have I told you that? I love your mind. I love it.”

TALIESIN: That's probably a bad sign, but thank you.

MATT: “We'll do that immediately. It sounds like a grand plan.” Assum says, “Not a worry. We'll do that immediately.”

SAM: We'll just have to Seeker Assum that it happened?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We should move quickly. We should pick a couple of Vestiges and move quickly, collect them. Start finding more allies, move quickly. But we should not dally too long.

MARISHA: And I agree, we might not be able to wait to get them all before we start taking on dragons. We might want to do both.

MATT: Jarett says, “If you're looking to go to the Ozmit Sea, you'll probably need a ship of some kind. It's quite a far travel and that distance as well and the docks on the west coast right now are, well they're locked down at Emon.”

TALIESIN: Could Cabal's Ruin–

LAURA: How long is the travel to Marquet?

MATT: “Travel by boat, across the Ozmit, maybe about a week, a week and a half. Skyship, maybe half as long.”

SAM: Airship. Airship. Airship?!

MATT: Gilmore actually steps in and is like, "Technically, I have a teleportation sigil outside the city. I could probably just get you there.”

SAM: Wait, to go to where? Marquet?

LIAM: Walking is really good for the health though.

MARISHA: And first level characters, which we are not.

SAM: Hold on. Before we decide that Marquet is the thing.

TALIESIN: It's Cabal's Ruin, correct? We're going to search for Cabal's Ruin.

TRAVIS: Are we at all just forgetting the fact that Draconia is lying in ruins?

TALIESIN: We don't have time.

LAURA: No, it's not about time. The dragon is sitting on top of Draconia.

SAM: So we know where to find him to kill him.

LAURA: Unless we know how to take on that dragon, we can't save anyone.

SAM: We've killed dragons before.

TALIESIN: I will feel better with one or two more Vestiges in our pocket.

LIAM: By the skin of our teeth, Scanlan. By the skin of its gut.

TALIESIN: We got lucky.

SAM: I like Grog's idea. Is there a way to explore that any further?

MARISHA: Pitting the dragons against each other?

SAM: Yes!

TALIESIN: I think it's a great idea worth exploring.

LIAM: Seeker Assum is on it. He said that he was going to–

SAM: Seeker Assum is great, but we're the best in the business. I wouldn't leave our plan A to someone not us.

LAURA: Seeker Assum is telling people that this city has been magicked away.

MATT: Assum is also still at the table.

MARISHA: Yeah, he's right there.

TALIESIN: We're drunk, we will talk about you in third person as much as we want.

LAURA: We're just reiterating the things that you told us you were going to say.

MATT: “That's all right.”

TALIESIN: We figured you would speak up if you had issue.

LAURA: Plus it's really fun to say your name.

MATT: “Never heard it before, I assure you.”

TRAVIS: How far away is Draconia from here? Travel wise?

MATT: “Well, my usual travel to Wildemount is across the northern channel here. I'd say you're looking at about two weeks of travel by ship across the Lucidian Ocean.”

MARISHA: Or we can always teleport. I can Tree Stride. I can always Tree Stride.

SAM: Have you been to Draconia?

MARISHA: I can scry and look at a tree.

MATT: Tree Stride is a short distance. You mean Transport via Plants.

MARISHA: Whatever. They all sound the same. I can scry, look at a tree, and then we go through that tree.

SAM: If there's any trees left.

LAURA: There's definitely at least–

MARISHA: I'm hoping there's a tree on that continent.

LIAM: Are we talking though about how scrying is a little dangerous right now?

MARISHA: When you're scrying on dragon.

LAURA: When you're scrying on a tree.

MARISHA: Yeah, the tree doesn't know it's being spied on.

TRAVIS: Doesn't Draconia have an army there? If there are any survivors, anyone we can bring back to Whitestone, shouldn't we be accumulating those people?

TALIESIN: I think if there's a dragon sitting on top of them, removing people from him is–

TRAVIS: We're sneaky, we're so sneaky!

LAURA: Are we sneaky?

TRAVIS: Yeah! Pike's not even here.

LAURA: You have your memories of the Feywild, do you remember sloshing around in that black sludge? Very loudly?

MARISHA: Do you remember us walking into the town center to kill Kevdak? That wasn't sneaky.

TRAVIS: No, no that was personal.

TALIESIN: Grog, I think you're thinking of a battle we can win, as opposed to a war we're losing.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, look I'm not trying to pick a fight with a dragon, I'm just going to make sure that dragonborn are there and we can help them.

TALIESIN: We can help them by killing the dragon.

LIAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Wow.

TALIESIN: Vax is agreeing with me.

MATT: “Actually that's pretty sound. If you manage to defeat the dragon there, you'll probably gather the survivors and have them join the cause against Emon. If you have means of transporting them. Remember, once a dragon is down, it's–”

LAURA: It's on.

MATT: “It's on.”

SAM: Grog is the best thinker.

MARISHA: Yeah. We pull the trigger on one, we pull the trigger on all of them.

LAURA: I can't believe if we fight one that means we have to fight–

TRAVIS: Well, listen. Again, I'm not trying to kill the white dragon.

TALIESIN: What is the white dragon going to do–

TRAVIS: I want him to go pick a fight with the other dragons.

LAURA: How are we going to do that, though?

LIAM: We're working on that as a side venture. What are we going to do there to make that happen?

MARISHA: We can't really stroll up to it and be like–

TRAVIS: You guys don't know how to pick a fight? You honestly can't brainstorm one way to pick a fight?

MARISHA: We are very good at picking fights. It's getting the dragons to pick fights on others.

SAM: We can probably plan a ruse.

LAURA: Oh, and how would you do it, Grog?

TRAVIS: I would talk mad shit to the white dragon on behalf of the green dragon. I would rep the green dragon.

LAURA: Oh my god, Grog, he will never see through that! That's brilliant.

LIAM: You are really strong. That's the end of it, I have nothing else to say.

TRAVIS: I'm just saying, I feel like an opportunity's being wasted here.

TALIESIN: I think an opportunity's being tabled briefly.

MARISHA: We've got to think about it.

TALIESIN: I don't think this is nearly as time sensitive.

TRAVIS: Fine. Someone else do the thinking.

MARISHA: Breeding hostility between the two is something that could take weeks, which we don't have.

TALIESIN: Well, we could start it. It's also something other people can do while we do other things.

LIAM: Yes. Delegate.

MARISHA: But how? It literally involves going to one dragon and saying: Hey, did you hear what that other dragon said about you? That's all I got.

TALIESIN: Well, there are other ways to do it. In traditional warfare, you can do things like cause damage to the property of one dragon and leave scant evidence that the other dragon, or one of the dragon's people, was somehow responsible. Have a raiding, somehow get wyverns to raid near–

MARISHA: Wait, hang on. That first thing you said.

TALIESIN: Yes. It's the easiest level.

MARISHA: I think I might have an idea. Okay, we know the white dragon is vain.

LAURA: Right? We know that?

MATT: All dragons to an extent are vain. It's part of the nature of the chromatics.

SAM: White dragon loves the thrill of the hunt.

MATT: The white dragon is the most comparably primal. They're all in various stages of hyperintelligence. The white dragon is the one that's the most… beastlike.

TALIESIN: If the white dragon is a hunter, the easiest way to incite damage is to sneak into the city and start mauling and killing Draconians that are left over, and just leaving bodies everywhere that he wasn't responsible for.

MARISHA: What?!

TALIESIN: That is the sort of decisions we're going to start having to make.

LAURA: What if somebody can Polymorph into a little green dragon or something?

MARISHA: Yeah, you went to 11 there on let's start continuing the genocide.

LAURA: Fuck shit up as a dragon and leave evidence behind as a green dragon.

SAM: I've seen the green dragon. Raishan?

MATT: You have seen the dragon.

SAM: How big?

MATT: Gargantuan. And you cannot Polymorph into dragons. You can only transform into beasts.

SAM: I understand.

MATT: Fairly large, yeah. I'd say probably– Raishan is the smallest of the dragons you saw, but even at the smallest of them, is still a good 30 feet to the shoulder.

SAM: I could do that.

LIAM: Gather all the papier-mâché you have in the city.

SAM: I could do something pretty close to that.

TRAVIS: I bet you could do a lot of incredible things.

SAM: Are you Tony Robbins?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I think this is a conversation that can continue through Marquet. I don't think we're going to come up with the best idea tonight.

MARISHA: But we need to get something started. Here's what we learned.

SAM: At dawn.

MARISHA: At dawn we drink some more. We learned that Thordak is enslaving sculptors to build his image all around Emon. What we have learned is it seems that each of the dragons have picked a city, a domain. Maybe this domain was part of the bargain to join Thordak's cause. Help me, you get your own city.

TALIESIN: A reasonable and astute observation, yes.

MARISHA: So I bet the white dragon would be real pissed off if statues of Thordak started popping up around Draconia.

LAURA: Or the green dragon.

MARISHA: Or the green dragon.

TRAVIS: Or maybe even statues where Umbrasyl's nest was.

TALIESIN: Let's pick a dragon.

LAURA: Vorugal is the white dragon?

SAM: Raishan is the green. Here's the problem with goading Vorugal the white to find and kill Raishan the green. No one knows where Raishan the green is, including Vorugal.

LAURA: How do you know Vorugal doesn't know?

SAM: Because Raishan's the shapeshifter, and no one knows where she is, including Gilmore, who's been scrying for a week to try to find her.

LAURA: Yeah, but the white dragon might have some way to communicate.

TRAVIS: Do we know how they communicate?

LIAM: Yes, we do. There were some baubles in a wall in Krieg's secret cave.

LAURA: They have other balls, right?

TRAVIS: Gilmore, Assum, do either of you have a theory on how they communicate?

MATT: Gilmore looks to Assum. “I have not been to any of their bases. Assum, you've been watching Thordak.” He looks back. “Within his domain in the Cloudtop, he has… apparently an overhead airplane.”

LAURA: It's very loud.

MATT: Trust me, it was strange. “He has a number of various spies that are sworn to him that act as his network of information to and from the Cloudtop and his throne of black glass and molten rock. He does have singular pillars placed around that contain four orbs that he would speak into on occasion.”

MARISHA: And didn't we see something similar in Umbrasyl's and when we killed the blue?

LAURA: We saw orbs in Umbrasyl's?

MARISHA: Yeah, remember, it cracked and it was like, I'm coming for you! And we were like, we don't know what that means! And we ignored it.

LAURA: That was in Brimscythe's.

LIAM: Did we see that in the black?

TRAVIS: They were broken already.

MATT: Yeah. They were already shattered.

LAURA: He shattered them. Fuck.

SAM: Why did he shatter them?

LAURA: So that we wouldn't be able to scry on anyone else. Or he was pissed!

SAM: He was pissed at the other dragons, maybe.

LIAM: But it's not safe to assume– Assum, sorry– that they're not in communication. We have to assume that they are. I'm so sorry.

MATT: “It's all right. It's not like my childhood friend Purvon.”

(laughter)

TALIESIN: There is a thought. This is a very good idea. You've got a very good idea.

SAM: What's the idea?

MARISHA: I said we start planting statues of Thordak or Raishan in other dragons' territories. Ultimately, though, what we need is we need someone who knows the dragons' weaknesses. We need to know what pushes their buttons.

SAM: We know what pushes their buttons.

TALIESIN: We need to know what pushes the reset button. Why am I speaking in video game metaphor?

LIAM: What?

TALIESIN: Nothing. Drink.

SAM: We can throw up some statues and cause some havoc, but if they have these orbs that communicate with each other, then the white can call Thordak and say: Hey, what's up with these statues? And Thordak can say: No, it's not me.

TALIESIN: Not statues. Idols. Small images of the white dragon for worship.

LIAM: You're gambling on jealousy.

TALIESIN: Start hiding them in places. If we start seeding them, especially in Emon, as if he is trying to get people to worship him in other cities as well, silently, quietly underneath–

SAM: We'll make t-shirts that say Team Vorugal.

TALIESIN: We just have to make sure that we don't use the stone from here.

MARISHA: Well, because we know that Thordak is definitely vain.

TALIESIN: And this will piss him off. And if he says what are you doing, I don't know anything about this.

LAURA: Yeah, he would deny it. Of course he would deny it.

MARISHA: And we're assuming– sorry– that they'll ask instead of jumping to conclusions.

TALIESIN: I like it.

LAURA: Even if he jumps to conclusions, he would be pissed.

SAM: But we know that Thordak is a total asshole– Sorry.

(laughter)

SAM: So we know he'll be pissed off, more or less.

MATT: His scarred eye twitches for a moment.

MARISHA: And we wonder why people hate us.

MATT: Assum leans into the conversation and goes, “We have many crafters and artisans that are within the grasp of the Clasp as well, within Emon. We can begin to have these made and scattered throughout the various offerings brought to the center of the city.”

TALIESIN: Little shrines, hidden in ruins.

MATT: “I like this.”

MARISHA: Hashtag Team Vorugal.

MATT: “We can make this happen.” You can make that happen. Hashtag Team Vorugal.

TALIESIN: I still will admit that Cabal's Ruin is one of the Vestiges I feel would be– and not just because I would like to use it.

MARISHA: Is Ank'harel and the Ozmit Sea in the same area? Can we hit one on our way to the other?

MATT: The Ozmit Sea is in between Tal'Dorei and– from your perspective, it's Tal'Dorei and Marquet, and the Ozmit Sea is what's in between.

TALIESIN: So we could do a triple.

MARISHA: We could do a triple. Because I have to get to the Water Ashari at some point.

TALIESIN: And that's very important, because we need them on our side.

SAM: Between what and what?

TALIESIN: Ozmit Sea, so it's over here.

SAM: It's between what and who?

MATT: The Ozmit Sea is between Marquet and Tal'Dorei.

SAM: Is this Tal'Dorei?

MARISHA: We're on Tal'Dorei.

SAM: So Marquet is Japan.

MATT: More Australia.

SAM: Got it. Is this world round? Can we go the other way?

TALIESIN: Actually, this world is shaped like a d20, so we're on the flat part at the five.

SAM: Can't go the other way?

MATT: You could eventually get there. It is round.

LAURA: Would I know how fast dragons can actually fly? If it's a two-week trip to get to Draconia from where we are–

MATT: Two weeks via ship. Ocean ship.

LAURA: Okay. If they were flying, how fast could they get there, potentially?

TRAVIS: I'm only saying, maybe it's empty, right?

MARISHA: What is?

TRAVIS: Draconia.

MATT: I'm going to make some mathematics here, if you'll excuse me.

TRAVIS: I'm only saying, if they were just here–

SAM: But we could bamf there right now.

LAURA: Check it out and get out before they get back.

TRAVIS: Get people out, do recon, whatever.

SAM and MARISHA: Plant some seeds.

LAURA: They've probably left a good amount of army there to keep people under control. We'd have to get in and out in a couple of hours.

SAM: And what would our mission be?

LIAM: Dump a couple of statues.

LAURA: We don't have them.

TALIESIN: Let other people do that.

SAM: Wait. What about, instead of dumping statues, we find these orbs? We find his lair, we find his orbs, and we call Thordak and we do a voice like: Yo, Thordak! You're a dickhead! I'm going to come kill you! Or we just smash them.

TALIESIN: I don't know why everyone's so excited about the notion of pissing off the dragons to the point at which they all come here, but it is a way to go.

SAM: They don't know we're here.

TALIESIN: They know we're here.

TRAVIS: I'm just pointing out an opportunity where there is one.

SAM: That's true.

MATT: A few days.

LAURA: It would take them a few days to get there?

TRAVIS: A few days? We would have a whole fucking day!

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this point in time, it's mid-afternoon, evening.

SAM: We have to rest.

LIAM: Percival, even just for intelligence, even if it was brief, even to see what is going on there.

TALIESIN: We have to make sure that we can get out immediately, and we also have to agree that if things start looking too iffy, we run.

MARISHA: I have an idea.

SAM: You have the best ideas.

MARISHA: Thank you.

SAM: Lay it on me.

MARISHA: Can you Seeming us to all look like lizard army members?

SAM: Tomorrow. And we'll look like us, except vaguely like lizard people.

TRAVIS: Why not wyverns?

SAM: First of all, the lizard army, is that different from wyverns? So they're just scaly creepers. I can do that.

LAURA: Have you seen the lizard people?

SAM: No, but I'll see them when we get there.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You've come across a few of the lizardfolk. They attacked you in Emon. They were on the wyverns. They're humanoid. They're a little larger than one of your half-elf companions or Percy.

MARISHA: We fought them on the airship, too, right?

MATT: No, those were bandits. You fought wyverns.

SAM: We could be lizard people, for sure.

LAURA: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: We could look like lizard people, and it would trick anybody who wasn't a dragon. And if the dragon came, we would be fucked. That would be the end. That would be game over.

SAM: (singing) We could be lizard people!

TALIESIN: I'm going to go on record as saying I do not think this is the right move.

LIAM: What do you think is the right move?

SAM: He wants to go to Marquet to find some cloak that may or may not help us in a week.

TALIESIN: Will help us. Getting three more Vestiges, two more Vestiges, just a little bit more power before starting to play chess again.

LAURA: Really the only point of going there would be reconnaissance. That's it. No fighting.

TRAVIS: When else are we going to know for sure?

TALIESIN: There's an ancient dwarven saying, and I'm trying to remember where I heard it, but it goes somewhere along the lines of, it's never a three-hour tour. That's my fear.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I know an ancient dwarven one that says no risk…

SAM: That's it.

TALIESIN: Your mind is a grandfather clock, you know that.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

TALIESIN: It's correct twice a day, easily.

SAM: If we go, what is our mission?

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: To get as many innocents out as we can.

LAURA: No. That sounds wonderful, but if we get people out, they're going to know something happened.

MARISHA: I figured if we find good fighters once again, and do our tree, our teleport thing–

SAM: We can get 13 people out. That's it.

MARISHA: But it could be the 13 people that could change the tide.

TALIESIN: This is not going to be a fight of 13 people.

SAM: We had a group of 50 goliaths, and they were all killed instantly.

MARISHA: That's what I'm saying.

LAURA: Plus, if we're lizard people, the survivors aren't going to be wanting–

TALIESIN: They're going to be wondering who we are, first off.

LAURA: They're going to be afraid of us.

SAM: I would only want to go there if we had a distinct plan to disrupt or trick or steal.

TRAVIS: Disrupting communications is a great tactic.

TALIESIN: We're not going to be able to disrupt communication.

TRAVIS: You don't think we're going to make it to the jewels and smashy-smash?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: I don't think that's a good idea.

SAM: And I slice the dragon's throat! And I say, I am victorious!

LIAM: That sounds like a plan. Let's go.

MATT: So what are you guys doing?

TALIESIN: Tightening up. We're going to go. What are we going for?

SAM: Smash the orbs.

MARISHA: Well, here's something else I want to put into perspective. If I scry and teleport us to the black dragon's lair, I can do one more scry, and then I would burn my seventh level spell to get us there again, and then I'd be tapped out.

LAURA: So we wouldn't be able to bamf out.

MARISHA: We wouldn't be able to bamf out that day. We'd be staying the night.

SAM: But I can get us a safe place to stay for the night, no matter where we are.

TALIESIN: But it means this is not a one-day, this is a three-day mission.

MARISHA: I could not teleport us. It depends on how many times. I've got two teleports, so I can teleport us there and teleport us out, but we'd be doing it from here.

TALIESIN: We teleport to the black dragon's lair, we sleep overnight, teleport in, teleport out. And then sleep overnight, teleport either to Whitestone or to Marquet.

SAM: Can you teleport today? Or are you done?

MATT: You can only use that once per day, though, right?

MARISHA: I used Plane Shift. I didn't use Transport Via Plants. Yes. Wait. No. I Moved Earth. I can't do it today. It has to be tomorrow. And if that's the case, it's tomorrow, then we lose that two-day grace period. Unless we go right now and sleep overnight in Draconia and start first thing in the morning.

TALIESIN: And risk a very reasonable reason that they would know where we are.

MATT: As far as I know, Plane Shift can't teleport you on the same plane. It brings you specifically to another plane of existence.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm saying I cast Plane Shift from the Feywild to here. That's all I'm saying. But I used that, and that's a seventh level spell.

SAM: So if we go to Draconia tonight, if we want to sleep in the mansion, we can't, because I changed his memory.

LAURA: Oh fuck.

SAM: So we would have to sleep out in the open as lizard people.

LAURA: Nope.

LIAM: Too many negatives now.

LAURA: This is danger zone.

MARISHA: We're getting a lot of cons. There's not so many pros.

TALIESIN: We need to sleep anyway, because we're exhausted.

TRAVIS: Oh man. I can find all sorts of problems with a situation if I look hard enough.

TALIESIN: That is so astute. It's 12:00. My god, he had a thought.

TRAVIS: Opportunity. Honestly. There's a dragon's perch, and he is vacated, and it will probably never happen again as far as we know.

TALIESIN: I disagree. I think the next time they come to attack and kill us, it will be vacated.

TRAVIS: Cool. While they're killing Whitestone because we didn't take advantage of this moment, then we'll go to Draconia.

TALIESIN: I agree. I legitimately agree.

LAURA: We can sleep and wake up in the morning and teleport there.

TALIESIN: We do have to sleep, regardless. There's no getting around sleep.

LAURA: We can't fucking go there when we haven't slept, Grog. We'll all die.

TALIESIN: We can't actually get there right now.

MARISHA: There's also no guarantee that they're going straight back there. Maybe they're heading somewhere else. They were heading with an army to somewhere. It's probably not a city they've already conquered.

TALIESIN: They were heading southeast.

MATT: Southeast is what you saw, yes.

SAM: That's where they live.

TALIESIN: So they're probably heading back home.

MARISHA: Balls. Then where did they come from? What were they doing?

LIAM: They were fishing.

TALIESIN: They thought that we might be here, and they took a quick look around, which is why I don't want to make any more noise around here.

SAM: Let's sleep.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go to the barkeep.

MATT: There is no barkeep here. This tavern has been opened just for you guys to be served. There is no current owner here. Most everyone who helped you open this are yourselves and a couple of civilians that were just there.

TALIESIN: Is there a civilian waitress?

MATT: There is no waitress. There are a couple civilians outside, but as soon as you guys started talking, all the civilians left the room.

LAURA: They're so nice.

TALIESIN: There's no barmaid at all?

LIAM: Your nobility is showing, Percival.

SAM: I need a young boy.

(laughter)

LIAM: These white gloves are sullied. I need a new set of white gloves, please.

TALIESIN: They're shooting mittens, and you're so uncouth.

SAM: I have an Unseen Servant. Do you need a servant? I make an Unseen Servant for him.

MATT: There's a wisp of air.

SAM: Command him as you see fit.

TALIESIN: Never mind. This is what I get for trying to be nice to anybody. I've learned my lesson.

SAM: I tip the Unseen Servant.

MATT: You toss the coin and it (clinks) to the ground.

TRAVIS: I pounce on it.

MATT: You (soft impact) into this weird cluster of air. It's pushing your beard hair back, and your mouth is full of all that air pushing into it as you reach into the Unseen Servant, grab the coin, and pull it out.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Well done. You got a gold.

TALIESIN: We'll sleep for now. We'll wake up in the morning, and we'll either go in one direction or the other.

LAURA: Good plan, guys. Good plan.

MARISHA: We came up with nothing.

TALIESIN: That's so not true. We came up with a lot. We just have to sleep and then make a decision based on what the world looks like in the morning.

LIAM: Dream about a cloak, Percival. Maybe we can get you a cloak.

TALIESIN: That cloak sounds useful.

MARISHA: All right, let's sleep. Let's go to the castle.

MATT: You guys find your way to the castle.

TALIESIN: As a side, I want to grab Vex for a quick walk on the way to the castle. I want to go by the cemetery. Has it been worked on, by the way? I suppose I'll find out.

LIAM: You did say Vex, right?

TALIESIN: Vax.

LIAM: You said Vex.

TALIESIN: Vax. I've been drinking. I've not even been drinking, I've been pretend drinking.

MATT: All right. You grab him.

TALIESIN: I have something to show you.

LIAM: What is it?

TALIESIN: You'll like it. Well, I don't know if you'll like it. I don't know what you like. I'm going to take him to the cemetery, to the crypt. The title I gave your sister doesn't come with much, but it does come with one, at the moment, tiny plot of land, on which a crypt sits. This was the resting place of the father and grandfather and assorted family members of the man you killed the first night we came here.

LIAM: You want my sister to live in a mausoleum?

TALIESIN: No. I want something else to live in a mausoleum. This is actually for you. Open it. I go and I light the two little torches on the side. This is very traditional, and it should open. Do you trust me?

LIAM: Uh…

TALIESIN: Good answer. I'll go in first.

MATT: Percy enters the building.

LIAM: I follow.

MATT: Okay. As you enter the mausoleum, the gentle flickering of torchlight that was lit by Percy shows the interior, though it is low-lit partially, and your darkvision does catch you. What was once a relatively decent mausoleum seems to have been gutted, retrofit, and now you see standing before you, is a mostly constructed shrine to the Raven Queen.

TALIESIN: I figured it would be a good idea. I've had my fill of gods, but I'm not so foolish to think that we do not need them still. This is here when you need it.

LIAM: I am having trouble.

TALIESIN: Me, too. I do not want to die who I am. I would like to live long enough to be someone else. I think you understand that.

LIAM: I've been really angry at you.

TALIESIN: I've been encouraging it.

LIAM: I don't know if it's entirely fair, but I can't shake it. I don't know that I'm willing to let go of it yet.

TALIESIN: Good. I certainly do not deserve it yet. I don't know if I ever will. But I can't think of anything else to do with my time on earth right now, other than… this. I am finished with gods. They will not help me. Maybe you will.

LIAM: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: I've always liked you. From the beginning, I've always liked you.

TALIESIN: I've always liked you, too.

LIAM: You are intelligent and charming.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: And good in a tight spot.

TALIESIN: It's the open spaces where I suffer. The tight spots, I feel very good about. It's the open spaces. This is a very tight spot.

LIAM: I would like to be friends with you again. I just have a condition.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: My penchant for forgiveness with my sister's welfare is razor thin.

TALIESIN: I know.

LIAM: If you can respect that, then we don't have a problem.

TALIESIN: Do you know why I titled your sister?

LIAM: I have some idea.

TALIESIN: She thought she was missing something that– and I use this term loosely– ordinary people… We have a magic we use, to convince people that we deserve the things we get, those of us who were born this way. It was treating her unfairly and limiting her ability to see her world for what it was worth, and it was a simple and easy fix. She is going to wake up one morning– not yet, but soon– and realize that money will not make her happy, and that trying to please that awful father will not make her happy. The first step in that is realizing that he's weak, and there's no better way to do that than being better titled than your parents.

LIAM: I don't agree with that line of thinking.

TALIESIN: I know. But you are not her. And I'm not saying it's the truth, but it is what I believe is in her heart. I think perhaps that might lift. I will never hurt her. I will never hurt anybody intentionally, especially not you, any more than I already have. In return, I ask: never take your eyes off me. Never trust me. And that is the best friend that you can be.

LIAM: I will recommit to that same promise I made.

TALIESIN: You can like me. I would love that. And in fact, I hope that I can earn your like.

LIAM: I do like you.

TALIESIN: I just never want to earn your trust.

LIAM: Well, then it's your lucky day.

TALIESIN: A gentle title will suit your sister well. I'm leaving.

MATT: Percy walks out. You're left alone in the silence and darkness, looking at the small shrine before you.

LIAM: I'm on board. You have me. Whatever you will. I have something I need to take care of, which you know, and I hope you will help me with it. But I do not take your gift lightly. You have me. I close the door again and head back to town.

MATT: Back into town. You guys quietly keep your distance in your walk, find your way back to the castle to your respective rooms, and an evening's rest takes you all.

MARISHA: Do I hear Vax go to his room?

MATT: Are you waiting to hear Vax go to his room?

MARISHA: I'm waiting to hear Vax go to his room.

MATT: Actually, knowing Vax, you wouldn't hear anything.

(laughter)

LIAM: 30.

MATT: You wait for a long time, and no sound comes to your ears.

MARISHA: I go to sleep.

MATT: All right. And with that, as you guys rest for the night, we're going to take a quick bathroom break. We'll be back here in a few minutes.
Break
Part II

MATT: We had a friend come and deliver a gift to Laura, which you can see presented on the table now. It is a replica that someone, Kiki Day, made this awesome prop replica of Fenthras.

LAURA: I wish you guys could see it up close. Obviously, we're going to send a picture on Twitter so you guys can see it, but it lights up different colors!

MATT: Design based on David Rodriguez's concept art for Fenthras.

LAURA: It's got Elvish for “protector” and “growth.”

MATT: That's so badass.

LAURA: Did I say it right? Protector, not protection? Protector is right!

MARISHA: Protector and growth.

LAURA: Say what?!

MATT: That is awesome.

LAURA: Thank you so much!

MATT: Thank you, Kiki!

LAURA: You're unbelievable.

TRAVIS: Should we put it down?

MATT: All right. There we go.

LAURA: Lean it up against the table.

MATT: So. As you guys come to consciousness the next morning, the storm has come in now–

LAURA: By the way, I got terrible sleep. I replayed everything Saundor said in my head a hundred times.

MATT: Make a general wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: You're paralyzed from fear.

LAURA: I am terrible! Wisdom saving throw? 12.

MATT: 12? Okay. Your evening is hard-pressed. You do manage to get a full night's sleep; you do not suffer any exhaustion. You do manage to get rest, though the nightmares do come in memory of your last encounter at the Feywild, and Saundor's words still swimming around in your head, finding cracks in your sense of self. But you still are stalwart against the choice you made and the friends that were at your back. And as you all come to consciousness, the sound of rain outside of the castle against the exterior stone greets you with the morning. You can smell the fresh rain in the air, and eventually come down to find breakfast prepared, a meal earned.

TALIESIN: Not chicken.

MATT: Not chicken, no. This is eggs, fruits. A classic Whitestone breakfast. Chicken is available, but strangely untouched.

LAURA: Baked beans. Tell me there's baked beans!

TALIESIN: The thick, single-slab bacon.

LIAM: Blood pudding.

MARISHA: Basically an Irish breakfast.

MATT: There are a few farms here, most are in the surrounding fields south of the city. It's good. It's fresh.

TALIESIN: The rain is good. It will mean that they'll have an easier time figuring out the water level while they're digging out beneath the Sun Tree and making sure that it's secure. I love this weather.

SAM: Well? To Marquet or to Draconia? What's it going to be? Should we vote?

TALIESIN: An attempt at an object of power or an attempt at friends in power?

SAM: Which is which?

TALIESIN: Draconia has friends in power.

MARISHA: Speaking of friends, we should probably check up on ours.

TALIESIN: (long sigh) That is true. We haven't heard anything, but that is true.

MARISHA: We haven't heard anything about him.

LAURA: It's terrifying.

MARISHA: I know.

SAM: He's probably okay.

TRAVIS: Who are we talking about?

(laughter)

SAM: Jarett.

TRAVIS: Oh.

SAM: Our only friend in Draconia.

TALIESIN: I personally would assume that Tiberius would either be on his way to one of the two cities, if he were so inclined. And if he had survived. And if he wasn't working in the city itself to keep it functioning.

MARISHA: He's hard-headed enough. So all of those things are very true.

TALIESIN: And again, we're at war. This is not a battle. We do not win by going to Draconia. We do not win by going to Marquet. We win months from now.

MARISHA: You're starting to make less and less sense, Percy.

TALIESIN: No! I'm making perfect sense.

LIAM: Part of the traditional Whitestone breakfast is–

LAURA: A rambling de Rolo.

TALIESIN: Breakfast needs things to live.

(laughter)

LIAM: I think you got that backwards?

SAM: Whitestone continental breakfast. Two eggs, rambling tirade.

(laughter)

LAURA: Vote, then?

LIAM: Vote.

TALIESIN: I'm all right with a vote.

SAM: All right, all in favor of going to Marquet to find a Vestige that will maybe give us some more power that we need to kill a dragon, say aye!

TALIESIN and LIAM: Aye.

SAM: All in favor of going to Draconia, where we don't really have a great plan but I think we're going to go try to fuck up a dragon's lair and maybe rescue five people and probably die as lizard people, say aye.

LAURA, TRAVIS, and SAM: Aye.

MARISHA: Aye.

LAURA: I've changed my mind. I want to go to Marquet now.

SAM: Three to three.

LAURA: Sorry. Oh shit! I didn't mean to fuck that up. Trinket, what's your vote?

TALIESIN: Hold on, let's see if Ashley texts in the next ten minutes.

MATT: Three versus three. Are you going leave it up to the dice, being a game of DND?

SAM: Let's do it.

MARISHA: Where's that coin we have?

TALIESIN: I have it. I have it right here. Yeah.

LIAM: You could also do one to ten and 11 to 20.

TALIESIN: One or 20. Ready?

SAM: Wait, we're just doing one flip?

LAURA: Yeah!

SAM: No. What?!

TALIESIN: Yes. It's flipped!

LAURA: What is what?

MARISHA: Okay! 20 is Marquet and a one is Draconia.

SAM: What about all the other numbers?

TALIESIN: There's only two! It's a coin!

MATT: 20, Marquet. One is Draconia.

TALIESIN: And any other number, we stay home.

LAURA: What is it?

TALIESIN: We're going to Draconia, and we're going to see if we could find Tiberius.

SAM: Oh god!

LAURA: Let it be known, I don't think we should go as lizard people anymore.

TRAVIS: Why?

LAURA: I think we should go as ravaged Draconians.

TALIESIN: I think we should go as Draconians.

MARISHA: We can make ourselves look like dragonborn with Seeming?

TALIESIN: I think that's a better plan.

LAURA: At least that way, they'll trust us.

TALIESIN: We don't have to teleport to the middle of nowhere. Well, we do need to get farther away from here. Is there any way to get farther away from where we are right now before we–

LIAM: Can we get back to Umbrasyl's lair? I thought that was a good idea.

SAM: We could go there and there and back.

TALIESIN: Well, as long as we commit to 24 hours in Draconia no matter what.

MARISHA: We can go to Umbrasyl's lair, but it'll take an extra day, because I can only teleport us so many times.

TALIESIN: I think 72 hours is a perfectly reasonable amount of time to dedicate to this prospect.

LAURA: Pop in, scry, pop into Draconia, look around and next day, pop out. Can we do that?

SAM: Yep.

LIAM: If we stop at Umbrasyl's lair, is there anything we can do to run Grog out like a labrador? I'm worried about him not getting enough playtime in.

SAM: In Draconia?

LIAM: No, in the mansion. Can you bamf up anything for him in the mansion?

SAM: You're talking about tonight?

LIAM: No. We're going to go camp somewhere for a day, right?

LAURA: No, we're going to Draconia.

LIAM: Right now?

SAM: Go to the black dragon lair, then go to Draconia, then spend a night there.

LIAM: I've been traveling with these fuckers for years, and I still don't understand magic.

MARISHA: Hold on a second. We have two choices if we're going to Draconia: we can either go to Umbrasyl's lair to scry from there, then teleport there, which means we will be staying the night in Draconia.

SAM: In Draconia?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: In Draconia.

MARISHA: Or we go to Draconia right now, blindly, and then I'd still have a spell to get us out.

SAM: But they could track us back here.

LAURA: How can we go there blindly if you don't know where a tree is?

MARISHA: Well, I'd scry.

SAM: And then they'd know where we are.

MARISHA: They could theoretically, if we get caught.

LAURA: We would only scry on a tree. We wouldn't scry on a dragon.

TALIESIN: I have a compromise.

SAM: Actually, can I just throw this out? The only thing that would detect us scrying is currently flying over the ocean. We can scry right now.

TALIESIN: Let's scry from the giant's cave outside the city.

LAURA: It'll still take a couple of hours to get there, though?

TALIESIN: Couple of hours to get there. It's fine. It's nine. It's seven–

LAURA: It's 5:00 in the morning!

TALIESIN: It's 3am! Why are we awake?

MATT: You're still drunk somehow.

TALIESIN: We get far enough outside of the city so at the very least–

SAM: To the giant's lair! To scry!

MATT: North of the city, up into the beginning stages of the Alabaster Sierras, you find the abandoned fortress that is there, embedded on the side of the mountain wall. Keyleth, you are attempting a scrying spell? What are you scrying on?

MARISHA: Okay. I have the map of Draconia, let me just see if I can scry–

SAM: You know what you know in Draconia? Do you know what you know in Draconia? You know Tiberius and you know his armor, and you know his objects and personal effects?

MARISHA: No, we don't know if he's in Draconia.

TALIESIN: We may end up somewhere random.

SAM: That's true. but what do you know what is in Draconia?

MARISHA: I know of the things that Tiberius has told us.

SAM: Do you know any of his friends or his family? Have we met his family?

MATT: You have not met his family. You've never been there.

MARISHA: I don't need to have a known location, right? I can just scry in a general area, yeah?

MATT: You need generally a creature of some kind.

SAM: What about his little pet?

LAURA: Are you not scrying on a tree?

LIAM: Lockheed.

MARISHA: Lockheed has a higher chance of being dead than Tiberius.

TALIESIN: I think that's underestimating, or overestimating– I don't know.

LIAM: It's a coin flip.

TALIESIN: It's a coin flip, really. He's small.

MARISHA: Well, this could answer our question. If I can't find anybody, then we might be going to Marquet.

SAM: That's true.

TALIESIN: Go for it, then. See what happens.

MARISHA: I guess it's Tiberius, then? He's all I got. It's got to be someone that I know? It can't be something I've heard about?

MATT: It can be something you've heard about. A person or a creature.

TALIESIN: A person or a creature, not a place?

MATT: Not necessarily, no.

TALIESIN: Can it be a magic object?

MATT: It would be a creature of some kind.

TRAVIS: We know about Tiberius. We know about Kruvanis Stormwind.

SAM: We know of Lockheed.

LIAM: The Mending Wheel. A creature only? Oh shit. Fucking magic!

LAURA: That's what he just said!

MARISHA: Are we gambling on Tiberius being there?

SAM: You're going to gamble on Tiberius?

MARISHA: I am gambling on whoever we scry to, because they could all be dead.

SAM: How many times can you scry?

MARISHA: Theoretically, four times.

LAURA: I've also got a Scrying Stone.

TALIESIN: Start with the stone.

MARISHA: That's right, you've got that goddamn thing. Give me the stone.

LAURA: Here.

MARISHA: Thank you!

TALIESIN: I think we should call it rock. The Rock.

MARISHA: It doesn't go away, right?

LAURA: No. it's a Scrying Eye. You can use it once a day.

MARISHA: Yeah. Let's do this!

SAM: Start with Tiberius.

TALIESIN: Start with Tiberius. We'll work our way down.

MARISHA: Start with Tiberius.

LAURA: I was going to bring it out!

TALIESIN: No, you did wonderfully.

LAURA: It was just sitting there.

MATT: You take the object. You close your eyes, focusing on the memory and the life essence of Tiberius Stormwind. You project your thoughts into the ether. The nature energies carry you into the darkness, and there is no response.

SAM: No response?

MATT: No response. The scrying spell finds no target.

TALIESIN: That can mean a lot of things.

LIAM: Yes, does that stretch across the planes?

SAM: Does it?

MATT: Generally, it's on the same plane of existence.

SAM: Okay. What about his father?

TALIESIN: Or Lockheed?

SAM: Well, Lockheed would be with–

TALIESIN: Not necessarily. How many times have we found stray cats?

LAURA: It's true. Maybe scry on Lockheed.

MARISHA: Can I try it? Will it expend another spell?

MATT: This one will expend a spell.

MARISHA: It lasts for ten minutes? Oh, per spell.

SAM: So you're burning your own spell slot.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm burning my own spells.

LAURA: At least you got one for free.

SAM: Thanks, Vex.

MARISHA: It makes me very nervous.

SAM: We should do his dad.

TALIESIN: That would be who I would kill if I were taking over the city.

SAM: You just want to kill everybody.

TALIESIN: I do.

MARISHA: I'm going to try Lockheed. His dad could be in a place where he's being watched.

MATT: Okay. So this time, you give the object back to Vex and you sit down and create the ritual space before you. You sit down in the center of the stone floor of the fortress and you close your eyes. This time, you send out your consciousness once more. The druidic energies carry you an extended distance in but a few moments, and your vision clicks in and you see, perched against a snow-covered rock in the inside of a ravine, a shivering, small, green dragonling. Alone, and is partially asleep against the stone. You can see just past over this large, gaping ravine that is the center of this portion of Wildemount, you can see scattered rubble covered in ice and snow and small distant things you can't quite make out with your vision here occasionally moving through it.

SAM: Can you see any trees?

MARISHA: Do I find any trees?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: 19. There's no visible trees in the ravine. Anything that would be living down there has been– from your vision here– obscured by rock, rubble, ruined floating island, and snowfall. You do see growing out of the side of the rock, not far from where Lockheed is perched is one leafless, small branch of a tree that extends out. And as you glance up, there is a very thick tree that is currently jutting out the side of the mountain.

MARISHA: Does it appear to be natural?

MATT: It does.

MARISHA: And large enough to fit Grog?

MATT: Maybe.

LAURA: Jutting out the side of–

MATT: Yeah. It's not sitting on ground, but is currently over the ravine.

MARISHA: Yeah, one of those. Any other trees? Is this the biggest or closest one?

MATT: That's all you can make out from this perspective.

MARISHA: How big is the ravine? How deep is it?

MATT: From where you can tell right now, from the perspective you can see, looking at Lockheed, it's probably a good 50-foot fall before you hit a scattering of broken rock, and eventually it comes into a grade to the bottom of the ravine.

TRAVIS: Not great.

MARISHA: Not a good option.

MATT: You guys have fallen 50 feet and been fine.

SAM: Someone has Feather Fall, right? No?

MARISHA: Did it look like a natural cavern or a man-made cavern that Lockheed was in?

MATT: From what you can tell, it looks natural.

MARISHA: Like he found a little cave and is hiding?

MATT: It's less of a cave and more he's perched on this little alcove, this little outcropping of rock on the side of the ravine wall.

MARISHA: Oh, he's on the side of the ravine.

MATT: On the side of the ravine.

LAURA: Okay, I have an idea. What if we tie a rope on something on this side and we all go out of the rope really fast and drop down?

TALIESIN: Grog first.

SAM: Should you scry one more time, for the dad? Because best-case scenario, we're in a weird, snowy ravine with no civilization around.

TALIESIN: We don't want to be around any civilization. And also, that's one more spell gone.

MATT: You did see, distant, blurred from your perspective, since the focus of the scry was on Lockheed, you did see movement and very small distant objects within the snow at the base of the ravine.

LAURA: They could potentially see us as soon as we come out of the tree.

SAM: Yeah, we'll be far away.

MARISHA: They could be citizens, they could be creatures? I just saw movement of figures, I didn't see any details?

SAM: Seems like a good plan.

LAURA: This is risky.

MARISHA: This is ridiculous.

TALIESIN: It's true. There's only risk at this point. Is this the risk we make or is this not the risk we make. Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh, are we asking for Grog's opinion now?

TALIESIN: Only so that we can ignore it.

LAURA: You're the one that was most adamant about us going there.

TALIESIN: With the new data, how do you feel?

TRAVIS: I think we should take the hint and not go.

SAM: But you said–

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I was picturing meandering out of a nice, beautiful tree in a forest.

SAM: It's a little jolt. It's a little fall. It's fine.

LIAM: That's it. He created this idea and he's backing out.

SAM: You told us your famous phrase: all risk! That's what this is.

TRAVIS: I do hate to have my own words used against me.

SAM: All risk. That's what this is! We are doing all risk!

TRAVIS: I'm down to party. I'm just saying it was a little different in my head.

SAM: I've never known you to be a coward, Grog.

TALIESIN: No! Why would you do that?!

LAURA: Why, Scanlan?!

TRAVIS: I'll go first. You hold my hand, and I'll go first.

LIAM: He can play the fiddle very well.

TRAVIS: I'll go. Let's do it. I'm ready.

LAURA: Okay, before we go through, I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us so we can stealth through the tree. Like that's going to work.

TALIESIN: No, that's a good idea.

LAURA: I'm going to look for something very solid. Are there trees around us that we can go through right now?

MATT: A short walk, you could get down to the base of the forest.

LAURA: All right. I'm going to tie the rope off onto a very sturdy thing next to a tree that we're going to go through.

TALIESIN: We're going to rappel.

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: Does the portal only close after a couple seconds?

TALIESIN: Yes. Six seconds. We're all going to hold on to the rope and we all go.

MATT: Six seconds for all of you to–

LAURA: Jump out!

MARISHA: Bungee-jumping out of a tree!

LIAM: We are fucking idiots!

MARISHA: This is the stupidest–

TALIESIN: This is a terrible plan. I want to go on record for saying I was against this plan–

SAM: We can just leave really quick! She's got another teleport, yeah. We're going to climb up to the tree–

MARISHA: I didn't see Draconia. I saw the ravine, and it was snowy, so we can assume it's nearby. But I didn't see Draconia, did I?

MATT: You've never seen Draconia before.

MARISHA: But did I see a city in my scry?

MATT: You saw no city.

LAURA: You saw rubble.

MARISHA: Once again, Lockheed could have flown miles away.

TALIESIN: He could have.

SAM: At the worst, this is a quick recon mission. We jump back in the tree, we come back. 15 minutes.

LAURA: But there's things that were crawling around amongst the dead.

SAM: They were far off in the distance!

TALIESIN: They weren't that far off. But to be fair, this is what a plan is, is everything going wrong. So I'm all right with doing this, if we're doing this.

TRAVIS: All right, sweet. I am, too.

MARISHA: All right, fuck it! Let's do it.

MATT: All right. So you've affixed the rope at the base of the strongest tree you can find.

MARISHA: Are we going to tie ourselves to each other again, like before?

LAURA: No! Because that's dumb. We're going to break our backs. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone right now because why the fuck not?

SAM: You got a fucking broom. I'm hopping on the broom.

LAURA: Oh yeah, I'm on the broom. And he's on the broom.

TALIESIN: Vex, we're going to have the greatest I-told-you-so if we survive this.

MATT: All right. We have Vex and Scanlan on the broom.

TRAVIS: Should you make me some something teensy?

MARISHA: Oh, this is such a stupid idea…

TALIESIN: No, we're going to need every spell we need in there. No, you're the weight that's going to hold the rope down, you're going first.

MATT: Any of your spell prep?

LIAM: I'm going to pop my wings out and hook my arms under Kiki's armpits.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm holding on the rope, because I'm an idiot.

MATT: All right. Grog and Percy holding onto the rope.

MARISHA: This is stupid. This is so stupid!

TALIESIN: I hate you all.

MARISHA: We've done so many fucking stupid things. But this is really stupid.

MATT: Vex casts Pass Without a Trace. The shadows reach around and embrace your forms. You become more obscured the further the light is from your body. Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: I cast Transport Via Plants on that big, fatty tree!

MATT: Keyleth touches the edge of the tree, the rope which is affixed to above. The trunk (portal opens).

MARISHA: Everyone ready?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Go!

LAURA: I fly through stealthily.

MATT: You fly through stealthily.

LAURA: I'm trying to get down to the ground quickly and hide behind something.

MATT: Right. I would like all of you guys to make stealth checks at disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Yes! That's awesome.

MARISHA: Oh, that's not too bad.

TRAVIS: 17!

SAM: Pass Without a Trace?

TRAVIS: Oh. 27.

TALIESIN: 20.

SAM: 20.

MARISHA: 22.

LIAM: 35.

LAURA: 33.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: All right. As Vex and Scanlan scoot first through the opening, you coast down, and there is a cluster of rocks, but there's a light snowdust, and you find a snowbank that you guys coast down to quickly. You can decide to float above the snowbank. What do you want to do?

LAURA: We get down on the ground and go under.

MATT: Okay, so you disappear under the snowbank. It is freezing cold, the wet immediately falling snow against your form begins to seep in. But you are below eye-level. Vax and Keyleth? You guys just dart through, you holding her.

LIAM: Fly through, and then once I see them hit the ground, I'm going to dive-bomb us, and I'm going to wrap us in a little wing bubble and roll into the snow.

MATT: All right. As you guys come falling out the side of the tree, you see nearby as a small, green tiny dragon gets startled and flies off. You guys go coasting, the wings expand for a second. It picks up and as you hit, whipping past the 15 feet of jagged rocks that were gathered at the base of the ravine, you scoot over it, the wings fold in around you, and you guys tumble into the snow. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage because you're grabbing onto her and are covered in wings.

LAURA: And you're covered in wings.

LIAM: I rolled a 15 and a 20. That would be a 30.

MATT: You don't feel the pain. And the wings do cause a significant barrier of impact, as well as the snow. As soon as you land, you go into a classic shoulder roll and use the inertia to not arise above the water. You both essentially coast sideways, stopping within the snowbank. From an overhead perspective, you can see a large swath has been carved through. But from visual eye range, at equal level, you guys still appear to be hidden within the snow. The two of you jump through and start rappelling down, Grog at the bottom end. Bringing the rope, bringing the rope down, bringing the rope down. It slams shuts, the rope cuts at the other end as the portal closes. Percy, you just make it out as the rope gives way. It is now Grog and Percy plummeting toward the ground.

MARISHA: I cast a Grasping Vine to grab Grog.

MATT: You don't have the opportunity, because this all happens in a period of six seconds and you guys just landed and coasted in the snow.

TRAVIS: Am I right under Percy?

MATT: He's about five feet ahead of you, yeah.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I'm going to let that happen.

MATT: You're cushioning his fall?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: All right. Make an acrobatics check, just for the hell of it.

LIAM: I love this game.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13. As soon as you look over your shoulder and see the ground coming, you try and swing your legs underneath to catch you, to slide across. And you begin to. Your feet catch the rock and you feel the muscles tense. Your back gets jammed a little bit. And you catch Percy in your arms, but the momentum of Percy hitting you sends you back over, and you both tumble into the snow. You do prevent Percy from taking any damage, but you do suffer five points of fall damage.

LIAM: Stubbed your toe, big guy?

TRAVIS: I got a booby.

SAM: Is Lockheed within range still? Can we see him?

MATT: You guys make a perception check.

MARISHA: Can I look, too?

MATT: You're just now getting up out of the ball of wings.

LAURA: 25.

SAM: Six.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. You do see Lockheed is about 50, 60 feet up on the rock right now.

SAM: Where's Lockheed?

LAURA: Can I whisper in Draconic? Lockheed! And whatever the word is for “Come to me.”

MATT: Seems too far to really be within earshot of a whisper.

SAM: I see her doing this. I point to him, and I cast Message, and I say: Lockheed! We're down here! Come down! It's us, your friends!

MATT: Lockheed (wingbeats) and then glides against the rock. And glides lower to the rock. Glides lower to the rock, and flies up– still keeping a cautious distance from you above the snow.

LIAM: Tibs. We're friends with Tibs. Tiberius. You remember us?

MATT: You can see Lockheed a little closer now. You remember him being fairly sick when he was initially purchased. While the illness has passed, he looks greatly malnourished and thin–

LAURA: I pull out some of my food that I give to Trinket and try to feed it…

MATT: As soon as you pull out the food, Lockheed's demeanor changes immediately. Darts up and almost latches onto your hand and causes you to jump–

LAURA: I cast Speak With Animals. Is he an animal?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: I have Speak With Small Beasts…

MATT: Not a beast.

SAM: Fuck you!

(laughter)

LIAM: He's a little small monster.

LAURA: I would have known, as a dragon expert, that he's not a fucking animal, then. Whatever.

SAM: What is a monster?

TALIESIN: Hit your head in the fall.

LAURA: I didn't fall, I flew.

TRAVIS: Pike's a small monster.

SAM: Just grab him and put him in the bag of holding!

MATT: At this point now, the temperature's really set into you. You've heard stories. You're familiar with the sound. The words you've heard of Wildemount, being largely a colder continent, especially to the north where the actual civilizations of man exist. Draconia's a little further to the south, but also based on the information you have, this being taken recently as the den of Vorugal, there is an almost perpetual small snowstorm that is existing about this ravine, and the wind itself is beginning to cut through. Thankfully, you're mostly armored up. For the time being, you're fine. But you can see where this is a difficult weather pattern to perpetually live in. Lockheed finishes eating vigorously and seems to be waiting across your hand.

LAURA: Perch him on my shoulder and get out some more of the little boar meat we have in the bag of colding and feeding him.

MATT: He eats some, happily.

LAURA: Can I speak Draconic to him, see if he understands any of that?

MATT: What do you say?

LIAM: Tiberius was teaching him Draconic.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. I say “Where is Tiberius?” in Draconic.

LIAM: Where is home?

LAURA: Where is home?

MATT: (croaking)

LIAM: Unless Tibs got further along with him, it was one word–

SAM: He was teaching him “sit” and “play dead” and stuff.

LIAM: One word at a time.

LAURA: All right. Stay.

MATT: And stays and digs in the talons at the top of your leather armor shoulder, folds the wings in and just waits there, huddled up against your shoulder for warmth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look around and see if there's a direction in which it seems there's civilization or any signs of battle or otherwise.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: 16. You bring your head above the snowline and you can see surrounding you– and you are in the center of this giant ravine that opens up to the sky. Not quite Grand Canyon size, but it's about half the width. It's a wide gulf. And you guys are on one side of where the ravine slowly begins to coalesce, and there's various steps in which the ravine casts down. You were already towards the bottom when you landed. This could have been a lot worse were it higher up. Looking up, you see, just from this vantage point, dozens of large stacks of broken rock and stone. You see pillars that are jutting out of portions of this. You see partially and mostly collapsed buildings that themselves have been destroyed from serious impact. You recall, during the initial attack of the Conclave, that one of the things that was seen through a vision was the fall of Draconia, which were islands of stone that were held aloft through arcane means within this ravine. What you now look upon are all the fallen remains of each of these arcane islands now plummeted, crushed, and fell into the ravine and have been sundered and destroyed. You do see figures moving quickly and crawling over elements of it, and you see a cluster of them fighting over something and then disperse.

LIAM: How far off?

MATT: They're probably a good 300 feet off.

LAURA: Could we tell what kind of creatures they are?

MATT: They appear to be humanoid, somewhat reptilian.

SAM: Should I make us lizard people?

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if I can see the origin, the epicenter of the storm? Like the eye of the storm? Where it's coming from?

TALIESIN: Clever.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16. Best that you can view, the storm seems to be slowly spiraling, and a large heavy portion of the snowfall and sleet is hitting about a mile or so towards the right side of the ravine that you guys are looking at. From the wall you're at, you have the right and the left sides of this current ravine structure, seems to be that direction, about a mile.

MARISHA: I think the dragon's lair is that way.

SAM: Can you look around for more trees that aren't so hard to get to in case we need to make a fast getaway?

TALIESIN: We could just keep our eyes open.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: You said it was a mile. Can we traverse through the bottom of the ravine to get there in that direction?

SAM: Or is it all water?

MATT: No, you can.

TRAVIS: We're going to crack out the good old Dust of Tracelessness since there's knee-high snow?

TALIESIN: Let's not be fleshy.

SAM: You want me to make us Draconians or lizard people?

TALIESIN: If we're lizard people, Draconians will not trust us.

LIAM: Yeah. We can at least pretend to cower and be afraid of lizard men if we see them.

SAM: I don't think Grog can cower.

TRAVIS: What is the definition of this word?

SAM: Be a wussy.

TALIESIN: Shaky dance.

(laughter)

LIAM: You know when you bang your balls on a rock or something? It's like that, you go, (groans).

TALIESIN: Is there anything you're not good at? Don't think that hard. Never mind.

SAM: Draconians?

TALIESIN: Draconians.

SAM: I will cast Seeming on the party and make us all Draconians.

MATT: What kind of Draconians? There are many types of colors, there are those with and without tails–

SAM: Wasn't Tiberius a strange one?

LAURA: Don't do red!

SAM: He was a strange one, right?

MARISHA: He was the odd man out.

LIAM: They didn't take kindly to him.

SAM: Metallic, yeah?

LIAM: Bronze?

SAM: Like gray, silver?

LAURA: Maybe it's good to make us silvers and whiteish!

SAM: Bronze, silver, and gold then, I guess.

LIAM: That's chromatic. Metallic! Bronze, silver, gold.

SAM: Yeah, we'll do the Olympics.

MATT: With or without tail? Because you've met both.

TALIESIN: They won't actually be tails. That might actually get us in trouble.

SAM: Which one was Tiberius?

MATT: Tiberius had a tail.

SAM: Do most of them have a tail?

LAURA: Gern didn't have a tail and he was less than– I don't think Draconians will like us without a tail.

SAM: We all have tails. Mine's a little longer than the rest.

(laughter)

MATT: Keeping your normal attire, just on the top of the Draconian form?

SAM: No! What do Draconians wear?

LAURA: Rags! Put us in rags, like we've been living in rubble.

SAM: Raw silk and tattered clothes, just rags, terrible gray things.

LAURA: Make us look like we've been beat up.

SAM: Sure. We all have a single bruise.

(laughter)

SAM: In a different place on our face. Everyone's got one face bruise in a different place.

MATT: All of your forms shift into that of various metallic dragonborn, with tails, adorned in rags, dirty. What do you do?

LAURA: Oh shit, who all speaks Draconic here?

SAM: You speak Draconic!

(laughter)

SAM: We're all mutes. We're lepers and mutes, and you are our doctor?

LIAM: Everybody else does fearful anime reacts the whole time.

(gasping)

TRAVIS: (speaking in Japanese)

LAURA: Don't actually speak Japanese, Grog.

TALIESIN: We're moving towards the epicenter.

MATT: You guys step up out of the snow and begin walking?

MARISHA: Stealthily.

LAURA: Okay, I'm stealthily leading us. That direction, towards where the lair is?

TRAVIS: Keeping an eye out for trees.

LAURA: And for any of the lizard creatures coming towards us.

MATT: Right now, no.

LAURA: Then let's quietly make our way that direction.

LIAM: Remember, like you've been hit in the balls.

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: You guys cluster up and begin stepping above the snow, which is still about waist, knee-high for some of you. Making your way to the right of your current location, towards the center of the storm that Keyleth discovered. As you guys begin to walk, a nearby pile of rock and rubble, there was that one cluster of four, five of these moving lizard-like entities. Suddenly, one of them looks at your group, looks back at the rest, and they all stand up and look over in your direction.

SAM: You're our leader, friend. Do we continue?

MATT: They're just watching you. They're not doing anything.

LAURA: Let's injuredly keep walking.

MATT: They go back to rummaging through. You guys continue to walk. The ravine curves to the right, or at least begins to open up further to the right and you're met with the next large structure of rubble. What you saw was the edge of an extremely large, once-floating island, now crushed and sundered across the ground. There are sheets of ice across parts of it. You can see the better part of a large palace or library that is now caved in partially. You can see frozen books scattered across portions of the stone and rock on the ground before you. You can see a series of huts have been constructed on top of this rubble, and there are some small fires lit, little plumes of smoke and probably two dozen dragonborn figures that are currently combing through the rubble.

LAURA: Do we see any books that seem interesting as we're walking through them?

MATT: They're underneath ice. You can try and chisel some out, if you like.

LIAM: Don't have time!

MATT: A lot of it's covered in snow. There's some bits you can peek through and see sheets of ice and frozen books–

TRAVIS: Are there any frozen bodies?

MATT: As you begin to have a closer book as you walk by, there are many frozen bodies. You see many people, all dragonborn, some atop the rubble, some partially crushed, some partially locked in ice, some destroyed by some sort of an acidic substance. Some of them are covered in boils, and their face is locked in some sort of horrible coughing fit. This was a very terrifying battle scene that has transpired here.

LAURA: That means Raishan was here.

MARISHA: That means Thordak was here.

LIAM: Umbrasyl was here. Acid.

MARISHA: They attacked the cities as a horde.

MATT: There are no signs of anyone burned.

MARISHA: I thought you said ash.

LAURA: The people that are scouring through the rubble, are those dragonborn or just the lizard people?

MATT: Best that you can tell right now, it appears to be dragonborn.

LAURA: Can we look at their behavior and see what it looks like they're doing?

MATT: Make an insight check.

TALIESIN: I would like to join that insight check.

SAM: I would not like to.

TALIESIN: Nine.

LIAM: Nine.

SAM: I will join that insight check.

MARISHA: I'll join in, too.

MATT: You've already said no.

LAURA: 13. This isn't having to do with dragons? So it's 13.

MARISHA: I don't do insight checks too often, I'm sorry. 22.

MATT: Did you roll or not?

TRAVIS: Oh, I rolled a ten.

MATT: Best you can tell, they're surviving. They're scouring through the ruins, trying to find anything of worth. Some of it's finding wood and throwing it onto these little flame pyres that are scattered around the ruins. You begin to look and see that actually the sides of the ravine, there are hundreds of small caverns are carved into the rock. Not quite like a dense honeycomb style, but it looks like there is an entire cave city that lives within this ravine.

LIAM: And they're not frozen over?

MATT: Some of them are covered in snow.

LIAM: But snow, not blasted with ice?

TALIESIN: They look like they're in use?

MATT: Some of these dragonborn, they're coming out of their huts. Some of them are still looking up at the sky nervously. They look over and see you guys approaching and a voice calls out, “Who goes there?”

LAURA: Friends. Friends of Stormwinds.

MATT: “Friends of Stormwind, you say? We have friends of Stormwind. Approach.”

LAURA: I walk up injuredly.

LIAM: I'm hobbling up behind.

TALIESIN: I'm cowering.

MATT: You guys cower and approach. Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, you notice as you approach that a number of the people that have all stopped and are paying attention are beginning to move around and encircle you.

LAURA: Pardon my friends, their tongues have been cut out by our captors. I'm all that's left.

MATT: As you walk forward you can see the figure that's talking to you, a very tall, burly, bronze-scaled dragonborn, long horns that protrude down the back in a slow curvature. No tail. In fact, you now notice that every single one of the dragonborn you've noticed here have no tail.

SAM: We had a 50-50 chance!

MATT: “Friends of Stormwind. That would make you Sky-walkers. I see your tails. You survive the onslaught and step into the den of those you persecuted. Well, what are your last words?”

SAM: This was a great plan.

LIAM: Drop it.

SAM: I don't know what's going on.

MARISHA: Is this all being said in Draconic?

SAM: It's Draconian! I don't know what's happening.

LAURA: You know what, I don't know what to tell you. Everyone with a tail's an asshole. We got what was coming to us.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: Wow!

LAURA: 19?

MATT: He turns his head to the side a bit. (spits) “What skills do you have?”

LAURA: I can shoot.

MATT: “Is that all?”

LAURA: He makes boots.

MATT: “That's a skill.”

LAURA: She's really good at stonecraft.

MATT: All the other dragonborn that come behind you are now holding spears, some of them rudimentary-looking pikes that are just held up and pointed in your direction. You guys are now enclosed by about two dozen dragonborn. “Here are your choices: You die here like the scum you are–”

LAURA: Choice B.

MATT: “Then slavery it is.”

(laughter)

MATT: “You will join the rest of your ilk, and you will seek food for us. You will know what it's like to be bent beneath the knee of those who do not deserve it. Put them in chains!”

LAURA: Oh, they're going to know, as soon as we're in chains.

LIAM: Well, we're going to have a fight here.

LAURA: Oh, shall we drop Seeming? Perhaps we should drop Seeming?

SAM: What? Is it going well?

LAURA: Wait.

MATT: They approach, and stop for a second. A few of the folks who came over and went to grab for chains have stopped and are holding them in their hand.

LAURA: I have to tell you something. We're not actually Draconian.

MATT: He leans in and gives you this very keen look now, and takes a few steps closer. He's about five feet from you now. “From where I stand, you look pretty fucking Draconian to me.”

LAURA: Well, we have some really good magic users with us. Look, forgive us for making tails. We don't know anything about your culture. We're idiots! We came here because we know you're under attack, and we're trying to help.

MATT: “And you just wander into the caves of the Ravenites, dressed in the face of those that broke our backs?”

LAURA: Yep, because we're stupid!

MATT: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.

SAM: Disadvantage. Not good.

LAURA: 14?

MATT: 14? “Bring the chains. You have ten seconds to prove–”

LAURA: Drop Seeming, just drop it.

SAM: Really? It's one of my better spells.

LAURA: I know, I'm sorry!

SAM: All right, poof. We're back to normal.

MATT: All of your images fade. Everyone takes a step back. The spears come up even further, and there's a little pause.

MARISHA: My tail's gone! Bummer.

LAURA: No, believe me, you don't want the tail.

MARISHA: But I enjoyed it.

LIAM: Does this make things better or worse for us?

LAURA: I repeat him.

MATT: Yeah, the reactions you get from them, you gather most of these don't speak Common and none of them seem to understand what you're saying.

LAURA: Here's the thing. You're being attacked by a white dragon.

MATT: “The white dragon came, and he tore down the Sky-walkers.”

LAURA: So you're happy with it?

MATT: “Well, it's put us in a better position.”

LAURA: Right. But now that the Sky-walkers have already been torn down, do you want to keep the dragon in charge?

MATT: “We owe the dragon for the freedom that he gave us.”

LAURA: So you serve one.

MATT: “For the time.”

LAURA: And he doesn't punish you at all? He's a good master?

MATT: “Those who deserve punishment get it. But we hunt with it. It brings us power. It promises expansion of the Ravenites, and we will no longer live under the boot of those in this countryside and this continent.”

LIAM: How's it going?

LAURA: Really bad.

MATT: “We have children to feed. We have families of our own.”

LAURA: How can we help?

MATT: “How can you help?”

LAURA: That's what we're here for.

MATT: “Bring us food, bring us warmth, chop some firewood. Bring some trees. Work.”

LAURA: Gladly. But not in chains. We do this freely.

MATT: “Give us your weapons, and you can walk freely.”

SAM: Let's kill them all.

LAURA: I'm sorry, that's not happening.

MATT: “Then leave.”

LAURA: That we will.

MATT: “What is your business here, she who wanders in the faces of others?”

MARISHA: That's a cool title.

LAURA: Yeah, add that to the list. Our entire landscape is under attack. Now, Vorugal has helped you, but they've made many others suffer, not just Draconians. Entire cities brought down, for nothing. We're here to right the wrong and help in any way we can.

MATT: “You should talk to Tooma.”

LAURA: Tooma.

MARISHA: Tooma. It is not a tumor.

LAURA: We knew that was going to happen.

LIAM: Took about 1.5 seconds to fuck with Matt's name.

TALIESIN: I think he assumed.

MATT: All you're doing is putting fuel on the fire.

(groaning)

SAM: Is it Tooma?

MATT: Tooma. T-O-O-M-A.

LIAM: That's totally different.

LAURA: Who is Tooma?

MATT: “Tooma is our chieftain. I'm not to make this decision. Come. No chains, for now.” They all stay with their spears still out in front, but they nudge you forward.

LAURA: I explain everything that's happening in Common as we walk. Is everyone still cool with this? We're going to the chieftain.

SAM: Just tell us when it's time to kill everybody.

LIAM: We improvise. It's what we do.

TALIESIN: I think this is actually going far better than I had hoped.

SAM: Just remember Vex, ticking time bomb here. We've got to get in, get out. We've got one day here.

TRAVIS: Are there any trees that we can see as we're walking?

LAURA: They actually said they wanted us to chop firewood, so if we can get sent on that mission, we're set.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Hey, 19!

LAURA: Are we in the mountains? No. Are we?

LIAM: 29.

MATT: You're in a ravine. Perception check was just for Grog, as he's the only one that asked to look for trees. But you rolled a 19?

TRAVIS: I did!

MATT: Looking around, occasionally poking out of the rubble, you'll see a tree. Most of them seem to have not fared so well with the cold weather and have been snapped or broken in the process of the falling rubble. You do make out, towards the edge on the other side of the ravine, beyond this giant one, you can see this one island, one larger island of the cluster that made up Draconia, fell in the center here and is broken apart. On the far end, you can see there's a small cluster of trees, the hint of green still to them, some of them varying thickness.

MARISHA: I could work with that.

TRAVIS: Might be a long way, though.

LIAM: We've been here, what, ten minutes?

MATT: I'd say about 20.

SAM: So we're going to go see Tooma, or we're going to chop down some fucking trees?

LAURA: We have to go. They're walking us to the chieftain. Can't just walk away now.

MATT: You guys are prodded along, over the rubble, and as you come around you can start to see, where the outside of the island is broken rock, the center of it is broken structures. Buildings, homes, giant great marble halls, everything is mostly fallen in. You still see some structures standing, but at odd angles. There are sections of buildings that still show the outer outline of what once stood, but it is all a complete ruin. You do see every now and then a few large spikes of ice that are jutting out of portions, and you see bodies that are jabbed onto the spikes and left to freeze.

LAURA: Do they have tails?

MATT: They do. You move over the bulk of this giant pile of rubble and begin to descend the other side, and you can see now there is an active village here that is half-frozen entirely. Half of it seems to be abandoned; the other half of it is completely coated in solid ice. The crowd leads you past that abandoned village to a series of tunnels against the wall, maybe 300 or 400 feet past that cluster of trees that you saw. Leads you into this tunnel, and on the inside, there are small glow stones set in portions of the stone. Not naturally forming, but essentially small natural bits of torchlight just pressed into the stonework to give some sort of a light source. You're led in for about five or so minutes. and you see other offshoot tunnels. It's like a giant anthill weaved throughout this, and you can see rudimentary furniture made of wood and stone, with limestone rock, whatever's available within the actual ravine here.

MARISHA: Can I get a sense on when this was carved? If this was carved recently or if this has been here a while?

MATT: Make a nature check.

MARISHA: Ooh, 27.

MATT: Best you can tell from looking at the rock and knowing the amount of erosion versus the curvature of it, these tunnels have been here for a very long time. This portion opens up and you can see now there is a much more refined, village-type structure inside, maybe 30-plus small homes carved from rock and stone. Built much better than the makeshift huts that you saw outside. You also see a giant pile of broken chains to the left side of the entryway. Many of them are manacles and neck vices that are just thrown and discarded in this large pile.

MARISHA: Tiberius never mentioned this side of Draconia.

MATT: As you are brought into the center of this larger chamber you see two dozen Draconians that are out and about just currently gathering materials, talking and walking, and stop and see as you enter and just watch as you pass by. Colors range from metallic to chromatic, all spectrum; it's a mish-mash of all walks and sizes.

LIAM: And the chromatic– the red, the blue, the green– are we seeing tails on them?

MATT: Nope.

MARISHA: No tails.

LAURA: Nobody has tails down here.

SAM: I could make us all Draconian again without tails.

LAURA: That would probably work at this point, right?

MATT: You're led past a couple of these stone structures and there is a central, open circular plot between a lot of these. There's a fountain that seems to spring a very clean source of water within the center of this chamber. Beyond that, there is a larger temple-like square structure that has a slight trapezoidal appearance to it. The entranceway is an open arch, and you can see a large fire burning on the inside of it. You are led around the fountain and led to the inside. There, sitting on a large stone seat made of haphazard bits of rock and stone, it looks relatively uncomfortable, a large stone throne, there is a female dragonborn. She wears long, drab, gray robes, tattered at the edges, a hood loosely pulled back and a large scarf or wrap around her neck and shoulders. She just sits there with her hands over the side, draped, and as you walk in and your eyes adjust you can see that she looks very old. As you're brought in, the rest of your crew still pushes you in with the spears. She leans forward. “Are these prisoners of ours?” The dragonborn who brought you in goes, “They are, for the time being. They say they come here because the Frigid Doom and other dragons who came are killing their people, as well. They have come to fight the dragon, or so they claim. They walked in under guise of our enemy. It is your wisdom to make these choices.” And the larger dragonborn bows his head and steps away, the spears pull back and they step, blocking the exits that you walked through; the entire archway now is shoulder to shoulder dragonborn with spears at the ready.

LAURA: Tooma. We apologize for coming in the guise of your enemies. Unfortunately, we don't know much about your culture, and no one ever informed us of what you have suffered, and we apologize.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: 23?

MATT: You're saying this in Draconic, I assume? She leans in a bit, and the firelight crackles under her chin, and you can see the teeth on one side pull out beyond the lip, and it gives her this lopsided look. The tongue wipes across the front, and she leans in toward you. “You come here to fight the Frigid Doom, you say?”

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: “I would be lying if I said it did not bring a chance for freedom to all of us Ravenites.”

LAURA: Much deserved.

MATT: “But as time progresses, I fear we shake one bond to step into another. The dragon presented itself as our savior, but has since required an ever-growing fealty.”

LAURA: They do that.

MATT: “Without the Draconians, without the Sky-walkers, and without the Doom, we would be free. Rebuild our culture.”

LAURA: I want nothing more for you than that. Let us help you.

MATT: Now, the rest of you hear this: “Do your friends speak Common?”

TALIESIN: Oh, that's lovely.

MARISHA: Hi!

SAM: Hi, yes.

LAURA: Much relieved. Yes, they do.

SAM: Grog doesn't, but we do.

TRAVIS: (moans)

(laughter)

MATT: “If we are to let you go, do you promise to slay this creature?”

LAURA: We will do everything in our power to watch it die.

LIAM: It is our only purpose.

MATT: “It has been gone for days.”

LAURA: It should be back very soon.

MATT: “Took most of its army with it.”

SAM: Grog was right! He's always right!

TALIESIN: That was our hope, that we would be able to come here when it was at its weakest and get a sense of it.

SAM: Do you know where its lair is?

MATT: “I do.”

SAM: Is it far?

MATT: “It is not far, but one hour walk.”

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check on her?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19?

SAM: (gasps) Oh boy.

TALIESIN: Do you know what I like as much as whispers? Loot Crate.

SAM: What? Taliesin. You've got to do better than that. Try something like this: You know, Matt's an asshole, but you know who's not? The good people at Loot Crate.

TALIESIN: Loot Crate doesn't decide to just tell one person about what's going on. They let everyone know, not just Vex.

SAM: Hey, you never told us what he whispered to you before.

MATT: No, he didn't.

LIAM: We're good.

SAM: Oh boy.

LIAM: I'm a vampire. Just deal with it.

MATT: “If you come here to kill this dragon, I assume you have the means and a plan.”

SAM: We definitely have plans.

MARISHA: Totally have a plan.

MATT: “Then let us set an ambush.”

SAM: Ambush? Sorry?

MARISHA: Come again?

LAURA: Well, we tried to do that one other time. While it did pay off, and its brother is dead, a lot of people died in the process. A lot. Very large, strong people.

MATT: “So what do you insist? We not have an ambush, we just wait for it to land and attack head-on?”

SAM: We were going to use this opportunity to find our way into its lair and find its weaknesses, and plan.

MARISHA: Sabotage, from the inside.

TALIESIN: There's more than one dragon, and they are supporting each other.

MARISHA: We kill this one, it'll set off a chain reaction that we might not be able to recover from if we're not fully prepared.

TALIESIN: We want to make the means to make sure that when the time comes, we can destroy them all in one fell swoop.

LAURA: The risk here is that by destroying Vorugal–

SAM: The Frigid Doom.

LAURA: We'll bring the wrath of the others upon you.

TALIESIN: He is not the strongest.

LAURA: Thordak is much larger, and I don't think he's been here.

MATT: “You speak with accents I do not understand. Where do you come from?”

TALIESIN: Everywhere.

MARISHA: We're a motley crew.

LAURA: Lots of different places.

TRAVIS: Do not answer that question.

TALIESIN: We can answer the continent.

LAURA: As you can see, we're half-elves.

MATT: “We are to walk to the den. We are to learn your information. Then what?”

TALIESIN: Set up a situation where we can monitor you and possibly contact you when it's time, and even let you know if we think the dragon's about to leave, so that you can prepare.

MATT: “I have lived to see this day by not being deceived or tricked. You speak words that are not direct. They wind. They spin. They circle. What guarantee do I have that you will not just flee?”

MARISHA: To be fair, what guarantee do we have that you won't kill us, and the ambush was meant for us? I believe there is untrust on both sides.

MATT: At which point, she steps off of the throne, steps on both of her feet, and when she's off the throne, her imposing form becomes far less imposing. You can see now there's a very heavy hunch to her back, and as she scuffles forward, she's an almost pitiful-looking sight, physically. As she pulls forward to walk straight to you, Keyleth, you see the somewhat clouded, cataract-ridden eyes of the dragonborn female Tooma. She comes up to you and goes, “We are a proud people, even when pressed into the dirt for as many years as we have been. We reclaim our honor. We reclaim our place in this world. We wish to do this as peacefully as possible, but we have been forced to scrounge and survive through this freedom. We wish you no folly. We wish you no ill will. But we also have learned that trust needs to be earned; it cannot be spoken and given so freely. Both ways. You are right to mistrust, as are we of you. But that is the impasse. One must have faith, in one way or another, if there is to be a compromise.”

MARISHA: I think faith and trust are not mutually exclusive. I can not trust you and still have faith, and you should not feel lack of pride for living in the dirt, or surviving. There's nothing wrong with that. But I understand your urge to want to rebuild, become the great culture that I know you all are. So you should at least trust that we have similar interests in the end.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Ooh! 19!

SAM: Was that opal?

TALIESIN: Yes, it was.

MARISHA: Opal's back! 25.

MATT: 25. She reaches forward and extends a finger that gently scrapes the bottom of the chin, not too much to hurt, but to go across the skin and pull your chin upward into the light of the fire a little bit. “There is much wisdom in there for so young a face. All right. There are not many options we have, either. Come. We will walk. And at the very least, if you decide to flee, never return.”

MARISHA: We can give you that word.

LAURA: Tooma. Are the Frigid Doom's armies around? Will they see us?

MATT: “There are a handful of dregs that stayed behind, but you tell me you wear many faces.”

LAURA: We certainly don't want them to see ours.

SAM: What should we disguise ourselves as?

MATT: She points past, over your head, and goes, “Tiny gnome, the faces of those that lead you here.”

SAM: Okay, tiny is uncalled for, but I understand. The faces of your tribe, of your clan. All right.

MATT: “Be glad you walk with one as wise.”

MARISHA: Is she talking about me? That's awesome!

MATT: She begins to shuffle over, and you watch as two of the dragonborn walk over and scoop her up shoulder to shoulder, and she shrugs them off and pushes them away. “I can walk myself.” She begins shuffling, and they separate and open. She walks partway out as you guys stand there, and turns around and beckons. “Well, come.”

TRAVIS: We follow.

LAURA: Can you cast Seeming again?

SAM: I can do Seeming one more time. All right.

LAURA: Wait, if you cast Seeming, will we still be able to get into the–

SAM: We've still got the mansion. Handicaps me a bit, but I will cast Seeming again on the party and do the same thing, except slightly different colors and slightly less tail.

(laughter)

MATT: The larger dragonborn that let you in–

SAM: My tail nub is slightly larger than the rest. It's a cube. It's a tail cube.

MATT: As the rest of the guards circle around and begin to walk, a little bit of trepidation, but going along with Tooma, the large one who let you in goes, “Tooma. Are you certain?” She turns around and goes, “Skork, there are few things that are certain in this world. I am not long for it, but if we are not to seize the opportunity of kinship, we miss the opportunity for survival. Is it a risk? Yes. Sometimes it's a risk worth taking.” And she keeps walking. The rest of them gather behind, and the now-named Skork gives a nod and continues walking along.

SAM: Have we heard of Skork?

MARISHA: Is that his name?

LAURA: He was the guy that we talked to right when we got here.

MATT: Yeah. You guys are led out of the tunnel, back into the freezing air. The wind has picked up a bit, and you can now hear this low hum as it hits certain portions of the cavern and causes low vibrational whistles in the distance. The snow has begun to fall a little heavier now, and as you walk out, you can hear the crunch of your footsteps as you're stepping through heavier and heavier blankets of snow.

LAURA: Can I tell Tooma, as we walk out: P.S., if that dragon comes back, we need to bolt.

MATT: She nods. “If that dragon comes back, we never saw you, you never saw us.”

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: She's very slow, by the way. Your passage of travel is about half speed as she leads the charge, but everyone respectfully keeps in pace with her.

SAM: Tooma, have you ever heard of a dragonborn named Gern Blanston?

MATT: She thinks for a second. “That name has not come to my mind, no.”

SAM: Us neither.

MATT: Pushing on, it's gotten a little lighter in the sky. You figure, based on your arrival, you may have just come in at the cusp of dawn, and the sun has now gotten higher in the sky. You're on the entire opposite side of the planet now, so the cycle has changed based on the location you're currently in. Well, you had rested, actually. You left in the morning. You would've gotten here– actually, opposite of that. It's actually now getting to dusk. Even though it's only been a couple of hours of daylight that you've seen since you woke up this morning, it's already beginning to set, and the sky is getting darker.

LAURA: We lost a day, but the dragon will still take the same amount of time.

LIAM: Ugh. I'm so tree-lagged, though.

MARISHA: I know. Always sucks going west to east.

MATT: You're led over a portion of the ravine, ever so slowly, that lifts up, and then as you get to the crest, it bends down into a far deeper and wider portion of the ravine. This is now the center part of this entire giant physical anomaly that is this giant crack in the ground, and you can see the bulk of the fallen city is in the center of this area.

LAURA: Do we see any big trees around here?

MATT: You see a couple of larger trees that sprout out from the rubble. There's ones that managed to survive the impact of certain areas of stone, though it looks like a lot of the bark has been stripped, and they might not be alive that you can see from this distance. There are smaller trees towards the edge, and a few still protruding from portions of the walls.

SAM: Note every tree as we walk by.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm paying attention to the trees. That's the biggest tree that's now closest to us. Now that's the biggest tree that's now closest to us. Now that one.

MATT: As you're led down into the ravine, you reach this central structure, and you can already see from this distance, as the snow falls, hitting and covering the rocks, there are dozens and dozens of those spikes of ice jutting out of the rock, each with one or two various frozen corpses impaled on them and left. At the top of this, you can see a large cluster of ice that is in a somewhat round gathering, and you can see– actually, no, you don't see that. Sorry. A note that will come into play in the future.

TRAVIS: Can I ask a question? The bodies on the spikes. None of them look familiar, right?

MATT: You can keep watch as you go. You push towards the center of the ravine, and upon the large island of rubble, you begin to move, and it takes a good 40, 50 minutes, an hour, to traverse, a lot further than you would've expected in that time period. Sorry, a lot less than you figured you would traverse in that time, being weighed down by Tooma's gait. However, the rubble begins to subside, and you begin to see steps of ice. Not perfect, carved steps, but elements of encapsulated broken platforms of ice that act as stairs. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth, as you guys begin to move up the steps, and you especially, Vex, you can see, with what little bit of light is beginning to shine down through the ice, you can see mounds and mounds of coins and jewel boxes and many expensive knick-knacks and collections, all below feet of solid ice, all clustered towards the apex of this collapsed, ruined island.

LAURA: Tooma, is Vorugal having you collect all of this?

MATT: “Vorugal sends us to pay the debt we owe for being freed, yes. We scavenge. We spend our days searching for food, for the means to survive, and finding what we can from the ruins of the broken Draconia.”

LAURA: And when you can't find anything? What then?

MATT: “These are the thoughts that consume me. It is the reason you are still alive.” Everyone make a perception check.

SAM: Yeah, dog! 14!

MARISHA: 28.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

SAM: That wasn't the golden snitch?

TALIESIN: No, I put the golden snitch away for the evening.

LAURA: I got a natural 20 when I dropped it. Giving up on it.

MATT: As you guys begin to approach, you can see now the ice that encases the golden coins begins to ripple upward, and it's getting harder and harder to climb. You can see now, it comes to an apex in this bowl-like formation, and as you get to a point where it's harder to ascend, you can see Tooma stops and sees that she can't go much further, and she points up and goes, “That is where it sleeps. That is where we come to give what we find. And that is where it should fall.”

LAURA: What is its nature? Is it vain? Does it want you to bow before it?

MATT: “It does not ask for kneeling. It asks for fear and respect. It asks us to bring the most powerful creatures in the land for it to chase.”

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check on her again? Jesus. This is creepy. 27.

MATT: 27.

LIAM: So the box is full of loot?

SAM: No, it's a crate, Liam.

LIAM: The crate is full of boxes?

SAM: Yes. A crate full of boxes. Box Crate, our best sponsor. Inside the boxes are tinier boxes.

LIAM: When do you get to the loot, though?

SAM: No, it's a Russian nesting doll of boxes and crates.

LIAM: Box-box.

SAM: Box-box, and then inside is a box-crate, and inside that is tiny-bag-crate.

LAURA: What are you guys talking about?

SAM: Liam! Do you want all those boxes?

LIAM: I need boxes.

SAM: You get $3 off the first box of boxes. Crate-crate.

MATT: All right. So. “This is its home. This is its shrine.”

LAURA: Check for fucking traps before we go in there.

SAM: Is it up? Is it down? Is it through?

MATT: The top comes into this giant bowl, this platform of ice, and it's almost like a nest where it sits.

TRAVIS: A big icy dog bed.

SAM: By the way, we've been in dragons' lairs before, and the lairs themselves do things, right?

LIAM: Yes, with the dragon in them.

SAM: But when the dragon's not in them they don't do anything?

LIAM: My sister and I are going to have a look around. I have a question for you, though. If we make a stand here today, in theory, is it worth it to you to stand with us?

MATT: “If you feel confident. Otherwise, we walk to our death prematurely.”

LAURA: Yeah, let's not do that today. This is reconnaissance.

TALIESIN: If all goes well, we will have one more conversation.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to start searching the ground for traps.

TALIESIN: I do have one other question: The bodies on the spikes. How did that happen? What was that?

MATT: “When the islands fell, there was a great fight of those that survived against the dragon. We did not join in, out of fear, and out of not knowing which side would come out. Vorugal stayed behind as the other two flew. The dragon asked us why we do not fight. We said, 'Because it is not our place.' The dragon said, 'Well, your place is now that of free kin.' The dragon summoned forth these spikes, and drove it through the hearts of many of the Sky-walkers. Many of us cheered, for it was a symbol that many had wished to see for a long time, but at the same time, the older ones of us… It was not what we wanted. It was not how we wished to be freed. But we had no way of stopping him. As time went on, and with each surviving Sky-walker that was found, there were no more cheers. Just the dread of knowing that maybe in time, when all the spikes are filled, it may be us on them next.”

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: 29. Looking for any traps.

MATT: Okay. You spend the next 15 minutes or so, 20 minutes, skirting around the outside of this large frozen bowl, looking for some semblance of a set trap. You don't recognize anything as any sort of mechanism placed that would set off your warning defense systems as a rogue.

LAURA: Can I stand on the top and look out from the platform and see what is visible from the platform and what areas seem hidden in the landscape?

TALIESIN: I'm going to join you on that.

MATT: Both of you guys roll perception checks.

SAM: I have an idea.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Natural fucking 20.

LAURA: I don't even need to look. Good.

TALIESIN: You both saw that, right? That just fucking happened. This is not my normal die. This is something I bought at Comic Con.

MATT: Oh, it's not the dice anymore. We know that you've somehow gained the favor of some Aztec deity that's trying to reclaim its foothold in the current-day pantheon through you.

TALIESIN: Sumerian, you asshole.

MATT: It would be Sumerian.

TALIESIN: I'm bringing a shrine to Burning Man, by the way.

LAURA: Oh, this is pertaining to dragons!

MATT: No, this is more of an icy terrain. Nevertheless, between the two of you keeping an eye out, through this Marduk Enki-loving fool over here–

TALIESIN: Bless you for knowing a Sumerian deity.

MATT: You look off and see that most of it, and its design here is to be a sentry point. The reason it's built over the structure is it has a view of the entirety of this central open valley in the ravine. There are nooks and crannies. There are elements of ice that can be carved away. There are small alcoves that could be out of sight, lower beyond the ice steps and such, but there is no extremely visible pockets or things that are completely out of the visual sight from that perch. It was designed specifically to be a place to survey everything.

TALIESIN: Are there other perches?

MATT: From what you can see here? There are outcroppings of stone and elements that jut out naturally from the valley wall, but it's a wide berth from each side.

TALIESIN: Does this seem like the only thing, or would there be other sentry points, as well?

MATT: If flown to and held in, yeah. There are a couple of other rock areas where the dragon would be able to hold himself, but this is definitively–

LIAM: Is this the highest?

MATT: Which one?

LIAM: The highest.

TRAVIS: The highest point.

TALIESIN: So we have a really good vantage right now.

MATT: From here, yeah. This is the highest point in the ravine.

TALIESIN: Do we see the orb? Do we see an orb?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: Can I help?

LAURA: We're all looking.

TALIESIN: There we go. See? That wasn't great.

SAM: 28.

TALIESIN: 11.

LIAM: 17.

LAURA: 16.

TRAVIS: Nine!

MATT: You guys take a while glancing about. Nothing. Scanlan, you dart down and begin peering up against the ice walls that surround it. Going down into the actual scooping bowl of this dragon nest, and looking down, you can see a little glimmer of light that refracts at a different angle than the rest of the ice. A spherical surface is visible about two and a half feet below.

SAM: Okay. Do we smash it? Do we use it to make a crank call? What do we do with it? Steal it?

LAURA: They'll be able to scry on us for sure if we steal it. They see us. The minute we looked into Brimscythe's.

SAM: I could do a Vorugal voice and say: Thordak, you're a cock!

TALIESIN: We don't actually know his voice.

SAM: I could say: Thordak, I'm in desperate need of pay!

LAURA: Do you speak dragon?

SAM: I guess you'll have to do that. What do we do? Do we break it so he can't communicate with the outside? That way when we kill him, he can't call for help.

TRAVIS: If we do, then we violate what we said we were going to do.

SAM: What did we say we would to do? I have a great idea for how to kill this fucker.

LAURA: You have a great idea of how to kill it?

SAM: Well, I have an idea. Tooma told us that they bring animals to hunt. We could be one of those animals and draw it to a certain spot.

TALIESIN: And draw it to a certain spot?

SAM: Where we kill it.

TALIESIN: With our…

SAM: With our army of fucking Draconians and our ice thing that we've shaped into some sort of a trap.

TALIESIN: I get a distinct impression that it is not impressed by ice.

SAM: Fire trap. Rock trap.

MATT: And you're saying this out loud amongst the crew, right?

SAM: Just us.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oh shit.

MARISHA: The ears have walls.

LAURA: And also, you're right in front of the scrying circle.

LIAM: It's buried by ice.

MARISHA: It's buried by ice, but that doesn't mean it doesn't work.

MATT: As soon as you called them Draconians, there were a few hisses from the nearby crew.

MARISHA: The Ravenites.

TALIESIN: Do they speak Common?

LIAM: Some of them do. We spoke to them in Common.

LAURA: We spoke to Tooma in Common.

TALIESIN: Let's make a plan.

SAM: I just did. I made a plan. It's an ambush plan.

TALIESIN: Okay, and then we go home and the dragons are at war. Then what?

SAM: What do you mean, the dragons are at war? There's only two more dragons at that point. We killed three-fifths of them.

LAURA: If we attack one dragon, we start the war. That is something we've been told over and over.

SAM: What does that even mean? We've already attacked two dragons. There's been no war.

LAURA: Once one more is dead, they'll probably all attack.

SAM: Attack what?

LIAM: They'll stop playing nice. They'll start destroying.

SAM: We have to kill them at some point.

TALIESIN: Yes, and now is not that point.

LAURA: The greatest plan we have is what Grog came up with, which is pitting them against each other.

SAM: All right, so how do we use this orb to do that right now?

MARISHA: Do we have to use the orb?

SAM: That's why we came here!

LAURA: We came here to find out what its lair looked like.

TALIESIN: What we are going to need is we need to sneak you in there, and we need you to take a movement.

SAM: What does that mean?

LIAM: A poo, Scanlan.

SAM: I can't do it anymore.

LAURA and LIAM: What?!

SAM: I used my last magic poo to look at my daughter.

LIAM: What a sentence! What a sentence.

LAURA: In every aspect, Scanlan, disgusting.

MATT: That's the next t-shirt.

TRAVIS: That's amazing. I used my last magic poo to look at my daughter!

SAM: I need to know where she is. I need to know she's okay. Gilmore can maybe make me some more potion, but I haven't wanted to bother him about it because he's busy keeping a shield around Whitestone.

LAURA: Don't!

SAM: Shit.

LAURA: You didn't say that out loud. You did not just say that out loud.

SAM: I said it in an accent.

MATT: That was out loud.

MARISHA: All right. Hang on. Let's think about this for a minute.

LAURA: Can we just step away from the orb while we talk?

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do that.

TALIESIN: We're not near the orb. We're near the Draconians, aren't we?

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Ravenites.

MATT: They're still all gathered around the base. They walked you here and they're basically watching you set up for this ambush preparation or gathering. They're not going to leave you to your own devices. They're still not quite sure of everything.

LAURA: Can we sketch what it looks like? I think you should sketch, Percy.

SAM: We need to use this opportunity. We're never going to be in this dragon's lair again! This is it. Crack the thing. Set a trap. Burn it down.

TRAVIS: I have a suggestion.

SAM: Yes, Grog, you're the best.

TRAVIS: The white dragon is primal, right? He likes to hunt creatures. We've got to go now. We leave. We leave them alone. That way we're not in danger, they're not in danger. We promise to come back, not only with forces to help remove the white dragon, but also with something for it to hunt. That way we're not fighting it in its fucking lair.

TALIESIN: We know a lot already.

SAM: I can pretend to be a beast.

TALIESIN: Scanlan, why would you bother to pretend to be a beast? If he just finds you, he'll hunt you and kill you.

TRAVIS: We know that there are people that will work with us. We know what the terrain looks like. We know what his lair looks like, which we don't want to be in when we fight him. And we know how to get him out of it, possibly. It's a pretty successful trip.

LIAM: One possibility is we could come back with Galdric, and he and I could play bait.

SAM: Galdric is the wolf, right?

LIAM: He's a big fucking wolf.

TALIESIN: We've made allies. We've got a look at everything. We know the terrain, and we know the political terrain.

LAURA: Maybe Urukat would want to come and fight a dragon.

MARISHA: He might.

TALIESIN: I will also add that we can leave them with something.

MARISHA: That's what I was thinking. Maybe this isn't about destroying something. Maybe it's about planting something. If we destroy anything, the dragon's going to immediately blame the locals.

LAURA: What would we leave? I don't want them able to scry on us.

TRAVIS: How about a little wine?

TALIESIN: How about a small grove of trees?

MARISHA: I could leave trees.

TRAVIS: They did want trees.

LAURA: I could leave trees, too.

MARISHA: We also have this Scrying Eye. Can I use this remotely?

MATT: No, you have to have it in your hands to utilize it.

TALIESIN: It's all right.

TRAVIS: I like the tree idea.

LAURA: Tooma, just in case something happens and a big red dragon comes to pick a fight, everyone hide. Get out of the way.

MATT: “I appreciate the advice. I can guarantee you there would be no other course of action.”

SAM: Can we carve in the lair “Thordak was here” or something?

LIAM: They'll know it was you.

LAURA: I think we got the information–

TRAVIS: Tooma. Forgive me, I'm not the best speaker, but we have learned from fighting these dragons that if we fight them in their lair, we are at a severe disadvantage.

MATT: “Then get it from its lair.”

TRAVIS: We are of a mind on that.

LAURA: What kind of creatures do you offer to it for hunt?

MATT: “It is growing bored with dire beasts. We've even brought it to the ocean, where there were some great terrors beneath the sea, but it tore them asunder. There are, northward, large segmented insect-like creatures they call the remorhaz. That was a scuffle, but I fear the dragon grows bored.”

SAM: Got to go find us a beast and bring it here.

TALIESIN: No, I've got a better idea.

LIAM: Spit it out.

TALIESIN: Once we've gathered some resources, when we return, we prepare to attack post-hunt. Once it has exhausted itself on something large and angry, that is when we strike the dragon.

LAURA: How will we be able to communicate with them, for them to let us know?

SAM: We'll be here the whole time.

TALIESIN: When we come back, we stay until it's time. When we come back, it is to end this.

LIAM: For now, we leave a back-door entrance.

TALIESIN: With the trees, we will know how to return quickly with a force.

MARISHA: This might be something we go to the Slayer's Take for. They always have a roster of big beasts.

TALIESIN: With a little bit of information, we could even keep them informed of things for it to kill that they may find around here, with the Slayer's Take's help. We can keep you in supply of things to amuse it.

MATT: “I trust you know what you say. These words mean nothing to me.”

TALIESIN: We are sorry that this cannot end as quickly as would be agreeable. We can do our best to help make you comfortable, and if you need some proof of the power that we wield, we can offer a token. I have a thought. But if you wish, a token of our power.

MATT: “How about this. I trust you to return. Let's set a time, so we know where the limits are. Eight days.”

MARISHA: Wow. That's soon.

TALIESIN: We can send a beast before, perhaps, but our travel is long. We may need more time. We have two more continents.

MATT: “How much time do you need?”

LAURA and TALIESIN: Two weeks.

MATT: “Two weeks?”

TALIESIN: Continents. Further than you have walked in your life. We move quickly, but there is only so much that can be done.

MATT: “Two weeks. 14 sun cycles past. If we do not hear from you, the Frigid Doom is known to this Whitestone you speak.”

LAURA: Fucking shit balls, Scanlan.

LIAM: They're extorting us.

MATT: “Not extorting. Making sure you are of your word, because otherwise you leave us here to die on promises that are fake and false.”

LIAM: To-may-to, to-mah-to.

LAURA: We don't do that.

MATT: “Good. Then we'll see you before two weeks is out.”

LAURA: Yep.

MARISHA: I will leave you with a parting gift. I will leave you with a grove of trees that should be ever-growing and present.

LAURA: If you do that, he'll know something is different.

MARISHA: He will.

TALIESIN: No. We plant one tree.

MARISHA: One?

TALIESIN: No, we have to plant some trees. Find a place that is secret.

MARISHA: I can plant these trees anywhere. Just need solid ground.

TRAVIS: If you can get away from the city–

MARISHA: I can possibly do it subterranean.

MATT: “There is solid ground here. Up there, above the ravine, wherever else you need it to be.”

MARISHA: Where does the dragon not tread? Where do you know he will not see the trees?

MATT: “Probably out of the ravine. He stalks inside quite extensively.”

TALIESIN: Let's find a place. This will be where we leave, anyway.

SAM: Tooma. I have one more question about Gern Blanston. I raise the hand cone, and I cast Modify Memory on her.

TRAVIS: Oh no. Oh jeez. Oh man, I love it.

LIAM: Look at Matt's face.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We're about to get attacked.

TALIESIN: No, we're about to run.

LIAM: Can I roll my initiative in advance?

MATT: There we go. All right, what's the DC?

SAM: 21.

MATT: What are you trying to do?

SAM: I'm trying to change the moment that I said “Whitestone” into “Emon.”

MATT: You watch as she leans in, and she shakes her head for a minute and goes, “What was your question? I do not know these words you speak.”

SAM: Candles. Have you ever met a candle-maker?

MATT: “I know not of a candle-maker.”

TALIESIN: I do have a request on our way out.

MATT: “What is your request?”

TALIESIN: Would the dragon notice if any of these bodies were disturbed?

MATT: “Many, yes. But small amounts… why? If you wish to take what they have, they mean nothing to us. One or two turned over will make no difference to the dragon.”

TALIESIN: Pull that one down, then.

MATT: “Right.” She points to it. Some of the Ravenites come over and haul one of the corpses off of the spike. It breaks off and snaps, and they bring it and throw it to the ground and step back.

TALIESIN: Thank you. (sighs) It is exactly what I expect, I would assume.

MATT: The robes are familiar. The scale color is familiar.

TALIESIN: I look it over. I check.

MATT: There, locked in the moments of valiant defense of his city, frozen and lost, the remains of Tiberius Stormwind, left a hero defending his people, defaced by Vorugal the Frigid Doom.

TALIESIN: Let's bring him inside, at least.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I go and I gather the remains.

MATT: They are stiff and frozen, but light enough for you to carry.

LIAM: Where are we taking him?

TALIESIN: I don't know. The remnants of the library, perhaps. The ground's too hard to bury.

MARISHA: We can't even pretend like he was our friend.

TALIESIN: No. We absolutely cannot.

TRAVIS: I have a horrible thought. If we move him, will the dragon know we were here?

SAM: Was he on one of those stakes?

TALIESIN: He was. No, I checked. Unless he's very clever and very keen, and I don't think they are. I think that if they knew, he would be in a more exalted position of defacement. I think this is just slaughter. Things vanish. I'm all right with making this vanish. That's as much of a calling card as I feel we need to leave.

TRAVIS: Where should we bring him?

SAM: His home doesn't really exist anymore.

MARISHA: His home was with us.

LAURA: Back to Emon.

TALIESIN: I have a thought.

LIAM: To our keep. It was very important to him.

SAM: This is his place.

TALIESIN: We're not bringing him to us. We're leaving him here, but we're putting him somewhere appropriate.

LIAM: We'd take him away. Can you melt ice and snow, and we'll lay him here?

TALIESIN: Put him with the books.

LAURA: He always loved them.

SAM: For now, anyway. And then when we free this place, we can find a proper tomb for him.

TRAVIS: We take him back to where the frozen books lay.

MATT: You find the remnants of the library. As you find a section of the stone rubble that's loose enough, you pull it open, and there beneath, you can see there are hundreds and hundreds of books, many still pristine, if a little soggy from the melted snow. You gather a lot of time was spent in this library in his youth, and it's probably as good a place as any to leave his memory for the time.

LAURA: Are any of the Ravenites around us, or are we alone?

MATT: They're keeping their distance, but they're watching. You get the sense that they understand what's going on, but they're not taking any offense to it.

TALIESIN: This will do.

LIAM: I start pulling books out.

MARISHA: I start melting ice.

LAURA: Is Lockheed still on my shoulder?

MATT: Lockheed is still on your shoulder.

LAURA: I bring him down so he can say goodbye.

MATT: As the ice melts, color comes to the body. You can see the tattered robes that show a fierce battle was fought. Regardless of this condition of finding him, knowing him as well as you did, he still probably left a hero. As you lay him down on the books, mostly thawed now, Lockheed finds a moment of recognition and immediately flutters onto his chest and curls up, mews a bit, nibbles at the chin.

LIAM: I'm going to sit three or four feet away from him, facing him, and start privately thanking the Raven Queen for ushering him on.

TRAVIS: I'm going to take a chalice out of the bag of holding, and I begin to fill it with ale, and then remember he preferred water, and I take the alchemy jug and I pour fresh water into the chalice and lay it with him.

MARISHA: I take and I rip off a piece of his robes. Tuck it away.

TALIESIN: Can you seal it?

MATT: As you guys step back, the nearby stone clatters to life.

LAURA: I get Lockheed out of there. I don't want him to stay in. Do you want to come?

MATT: Lockheed resists and resists and doesn't want to leave.

LAURA: In Draconic I say: It's all right.

MATT: Lockheed curls up onto his face and nibbles a bit on the forehead, then turns back and flutters up onto your shoulder. The stonework clatters closed over the top of the rubble of the library.

MARISHA: Keyleth drops to her knees and starts crying.

MATT: Vax. In this moment of sadness, there is a bit of warmth, as you sense, though remote as it is through the Divine Gate, the Raven Queen's assurance that his spirit has made it to the other side.

LAURA: I put my hand on Keyleth's shoulder. He loved you well, princess.

MARISHA: He was so stupid.

LIAM: He meant well.

TALIESIN: I'm going to find Tooma. Is she behind us?

MARISHA: He should have never left our side.

TALIESIN: Hopefully, this war will go on schedule. But there's our promise. That's the best you're going to get. I head out.

MARISHA: I follow Percy.

SAM: I turn around and say: Goodbye, old friend. We'll come back and we'll fix this. Because this is… poppycock.

MATT: As you gather yourselves up, here amongst the ruins of Draconia, the last of the sky's light, the sun has faded and the night has taken its form. You hear the distant caws of the evening birds as they begin to take to the skies above the ravine. Tooma and the rest of the Ravenites give a nod as you join hands. Keyleth?

MARISHA: Let's go home.

TALIESIN: Yes, let's. There's much to do.

MARISHA: Back to Whitestone.

LAURA: Were you going to leave a tree?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We let them know where the grove would be found, before we left them.

MARISHA: I do Plant Growth. Make a big old tree.

MATT: All righty. Where do you create the tree?

MARISHA: Wherever we decided it was best to create the tree.

LAURA: Outside of the ravine.

TALIESIN: At the top. A little grove of trees.

MATT: Which, with a simple use of the broom or wild shape, you can make your way up there, find a small patch of bushes, create a single tree that didn't exist there previously, a small sapling now grown to full height. The bastion of a promise to be kept. Keyleth returns. You take hands. You step through the nearest tree as the portal opens, and find yourself emerging from the other side of the Sun Tree, back in Whitestone.

MARISHA: I give the Sun Tree a little pat.

MATT: The morning sun begins to rise.

TALIESIN: We'll report what we've seen. We'll try to gain our bearings again, get sleep tonight. We'll report what we've seen in the new room. No one else. And we will never utter this city's name outside these walls again.

SAM: Totally. Dick move.

MATT: You find yourselves to rest, keeping memories fresh until sleep takes you.

MARISHA: Knock on Vax's door.

SAM: Oh god.

MATT: All right. As everyone else is going to rest, Keyleth, you find your way to Vax's door.

MARISHA: Can I stay with you tonight?

LIAM: I don't fuck anything up with words, and I open the door.

SAM: What?

LIAM: I'm not going to fuck it up by saying anything. I open the door.

MARISHA: I just go in.

MATT: Whether or not you are taking the time to sleep or ruminate on the events, as it's only been half a day since last you woke up, you take some time with Lockheed. He eats a little more food and leaps to the window of your room, and then takes off over the rest of Whitestone. You process this time, this moment, this memory, and realize how much has been lost through this journey, but yet how much is worth saving. How much is worth fighting for. And then, as much as you bunch of fuck-up misfits that came together as friends years ago have come to a point of understanding your true worth and what the importance is of really standing up for the things that you believe in in this world, and the people that need protecting, and know that the next step of your journey should come soon. Whether you stand or fall, this is the fight that needs to be fought. And with luck be at your side, that terrible fucking dragon will meet its end soon enough. And with that we'll pick up next week on Thursday.

TALIESIN: Glad we decided to take a light-hearted game.

SAM: It's a fun romp after the Feywild, a fun romp.

LIAM: Bar hop! Bar crawl!

MARISHA: I need a stiff drink.

MATT: I was simultaneously looking forward to and not looking forward to the return to Draconia for that reason.

LAURA: Man.

MATT: We'll pick it up next week, guys.

MARISHA: Yay.

MATT: I'm sorry. Sorry, guys. Sorry to you.

LAURA: Thanks, Loot Crate.

SAM: $3 discount.

TRAVIS: Pour one out for Tibs. We will be.

MATT: Not all narrative is bright, but it has its purpose.

SAM: We're next.

(laughter)

MATT: We love you guys. Thank you for sticking through us for an emotionally draining evening. We'll be back next Thursday to see the next length of Vox Machina's journey. Is it Thursday yet? Good night. 
